Forward by Author Janice Livingston
	
When I first met Mr. Tokio Jones, I was immersed in research for my book detailing the life and times of Chris and Janique Turner. But he proved to be an exceptional figure in his own right, with a story that fascinated me. I knew I had to tell his tale as well, one filled with drama and hyperbole. We were of different worlds, now occupying some unlikely intersection of the two. I did my best to leave things in their rawest form, and to not color the text via the lens of my own upbringing. In some respects, I feel I have succeeded. In other ways, this work is but a thumbnail sketch of a complex and admirable individual.
Over time, the little notes we made for each other in the draft became such a part of the flavor of the story, I ultimately decided to leave them in. An unconventional format for the tale of an unconventional man. I think that is somehow both fitting and poetic. 
- JL
	 

Chapter 1 – Tokio Motherfucking Jones	

My motherfuckin’ name is Tokio. At least it was. Clarence James Jackson, since you get to know the real me. We might as well start there. I’m a motherfuckin’ pimp. That is to say, I used to be, could be, and thus, still am. Be that as it may. You cannot take that title from me, nor disparage what I did. But that’s what it was. This is what it is now.
	So, there I was. Little twelve-year-old Clarence. Wide-eyed. Positive. Thrilled with the world. Happy-go-lucky-ass. Good grades. B’s, you know. You don’t want to be too square. You’re taught that, somehow. Not just in school. To me, it likely comes about with each generation being smarter than the last, evolutionarily, and via media amplification. When the child is shown to be smarter than the parent, gaslighting begins. But this is starting to sound like some fuckin’ pity party. Shit ain’t like that. 
	I never got in any real trouble. Rough housing. Out after dark. Teasing. A kid living a kid life. 
	No dad to speak of. But no dad doesn’t mean an absence of a male presence, does it? On the contrary, it often means a smattering array of the drunken, the violent, the twisted, and the literal evil. Plus, the occasional decent cat who nevertheless didn’t stick around for long. 
Now that I’m getting it all out, I can see that it’s not sympathy I want to invoke. I mean, I’m Tokio Jones. Who are you? I don’t know how much money I have because I don’t care to check. From my end, it appears to be infinite, and growing. As opposed to what? Some soccer mom reading a book written by a white lady as told to her by a black man? Feeling sorry for me, who at times traded women like baseball cards?
	Because what I seek to promote is not sympathy. But anger.
	Now, I guess, how should I put this? When you start getting hair on your balls, you begin to look at the world differently. Not just about how you want to put your dick in just about anything qualifying as either round, wet, or female. That’s not even what I mean, though. You start to get a chip on your shoulder. In some more mild cultures, under different conditions, this may just lead to slight rebellion. A protest over bedtimes or a curfew. 
In my case, things sort of amplified. I started to see that there was such a thing as school smart, but there was also smart about school. I knew that a straight job would be more of the same. Manageable, but repugnant. To fall in with the dumbasses, in a dumbass society?  That ain’t Tokio. That ain’t even Clarence.
	Meanwhile, they had some giant Cadillacs that rolled down my street. I mean some eighth-of-a-block vehicles with paint jobs that shone like armor. Motherfuckers would time their rides to throw the biggest bling based on the position of the sun. Gold rims. Literal gold fucking rims. If one didn’t have diamonds, a green, sparkling Town Car with whitewall tires, they were expensive fakes. Cats was fly. And that’s what it became all about.
	Suits. Man, people laugh about pimp clothes, but I don’t know what you’re talkin’ ‘bout. If these cats didn’t have a suit worthy of Nipsey Russell, they weren’t stepping outside. Brooks Brothers, tailored shit like that. Lookin’ better than the Italians they copped the look from, adding a big-ass hat like a clown. It was their uniform. Let me tell you about shit like that. If you’re wearing a hat, you’re a sitting duck. I don’t know what it is, but dudes was more on guard for their hats falling off when they were standing out, profiling, playing Big Bank Take Little Bank, swapping hoes, than they were about any possible threat to their being.
	Best believe they had the hottest bitches imaginable with them. Sometimes more than one. White. High School. Bitches. Now, I know every single one of you knows what I mean. I’ll thank you for not pretending otherwise. Teenage pussy makes the world go ‘round.
	In the ghetto, rebellion was a religion. We did it big, or not at all.  I wasn’t rebelling against my mostly hard-working mom, who scarcely imposed any rules on me anyway. Or school, which was just boring, and required more patience than brains. 
	We rebelled against the world.
	If you were of the age that you were born in the early sixties, you likely escaped that hippie shit, which wasn’t really part of our culture anyway. We were the cats selling weed and coke to any long-haired white boy with money. Mostly, I guess we probably mostly sold it to each other. We didn’t charge the girls cash, but they paid, all the same. What you got during that period instead was the beginning of the radical era. Not so much black-fist-in-the-air Kumbaya as motherfuckin’ TNT, pipe bombs, machine gun the pigs kind of shit.  
	You mix all that up together and put a hormone-laden young black man such as myself into the fray, and almost anything might happen. And did. But for me, it didn’t manifest as impulsive violence.
	I got colder. I don’t know how else to describe it. It could, in some circles, be considered psychopathy. More properly, sociopathy. I suppose that’s true to a degree, but that also means that each and every one of us is a sociopath, adapting to our own personal situations. I feel there is an unfairly imposed connotation associated with sociopathy. You’re viewed as a dangerous miscreant. One can be a sociopath and follow what is really the Hippocratic Oath: First, Do No Harm. That didn’t mean I was a pussy. It meant I wasn’t going to jail, or get took, or taken out. 
Instead, I began to plot in secret. In my head, at first. Later on, I wrote some down. It became some heavy shit, some of which is transcribed directly in a later chapter, I believe. Like, I would play ball with you, and we could talk about fuckin’ Fat Albert or whatever, but I was thinking about how them cats had all that money. It became what you might term an obsession with me.
That is, when I wasn’t thinking about their bitches. Leaning out the window, lampin’. Cats spendin’ a thousand dollars on a car stereo to blast Parliament Funkadelic, paradin’ around a bunch of blonde, brace-faced fifteen-year-olds. And I didn’t know anyone else could fuck them. Fucking goals. Some shit my grand-nephew taught me. Hashtag: goals. If I didn’t do anything else, I hipped him to the whole game before anyone else got to read it. He remains committed to law school, however, to my delight.
Now Janice, she is a book by herself. She just said she would shoot me if I ever printed a word about her life, and laughed.
The money, undoubtedly, got the bitches. But there was more to it than just that. A celebrity. Pimps were the superstars of our little subset of the world. More so even than drug dealers, who were a lot less high-profile. 
For fucking real, cocaine. A woman will do much more for cocaine than she will for money, initially. At that point, it becomes academic. Fifth Ward, Texas was dusted with cocaine. Baggies were regularly swept up by street cleaners, in some place in quantities enough to consider recycling. It would have been a smooth-ass hustle to collect them by the thousands, wash them en masse, and resell them. The best businesses are started with some crimes, I’ve found. Little to no startup cost, and a one-time investment. 
What was weird about my change in personality was that it made me more attentive in school. To be honest, I didn’t give a fuck about anything but Math and English. History, we know, is bullshit. But on those subjects, my thirst for knowledge was unquenchable.
It all began to relate to the hustle. Numbers and words, man. A pimp’s main two bitches. You have to be a sexy fucking poet Romeo, and more shrewd than Jewish accountants. It was, for me, becoming a relative man of the world in comparison to my peers. Once I began to link the two, education and game, I took to them both with the same deadly seriousness, and inadvertently learned a whole lot more in the process. I became a young scholar in service of the pimp hustle.
Now, about the white girl thing. It was never anything against the sisters. Sometimes when you’re at that in-between age, they feel more like cousins. But the ones that were fuckin’ were fuckin’, and I wasn’t one to discriminate. I can’t even compare black women and white women. They’re just two classes of ultimate beauty, each uniquely different. And I will tell you that about each of your major, how do they say that shit now, cultures and national origins. If I believed in God, I would say the feminine of the species is the closest thing to sacred that exists.
I know how that sounds on one hand like proselytizing a religion, but is also absurd, given the nature of my desired profession. Nevertheless.   
Man, then my cousin moved to town.

Chapter 2 – Cuz

	My cousin Tracy moved down to H-Town from Detroit. He didn’t take to the heat very well, and had no idea how to deal with Mexicans. Basically, ignoring them is somewhat showing them respect. Other than that, a no-mercy beating is in order for confrontations. But that inevitably led to deaths. Death wasn’t where I was headed. 
	See, Tracy might have sweated, but he had silk handkerchiefs for that. Cat always stayed clean. That is to say he was never seen in anything less than the same sort of clothes worn by my local heroes. 
	We were cool, but right away, he started asking me about bitches. I mean, he hadn’t been off the airplane for more than an hour or so, and this cat wants to know what girls are fuckin’. Like a fool, I told him. First rule of pimp game: tell nothing to no one. 
	Motherfuckin’ Tracy stole my best girl. Plus two more, eventually. I mean cut off, for me. This dude didn’t give them flowers and stupid shit. They gave him presents. A fuckin’ Gucci watch. Real shit. I could scarcely fathom the concept of giving less and getting more. Once I got past my initial flush of anger, an emotion that at best only simmered in me at a low heat, I confronted him about it. Not concerned with why or what. But how. How in the fuck, man, do you just straight pull bitches like that? Nigga you fly, but you ain’t that fly.
	He laughed. “You know that bitch Janet?”
	Janet was so beautiful. I had treasured her over all of the others put together. She was already planning on nursing school. Just textbox future sexy wife and mother material, in stark contrast to what amounted to hoodrats for the rest of them.
	“Yeah, motherfucker, I know Janet.”
	“I’ll let you fuck her for $50.”
	I turned red, and I know he could see it. I almost swung on dude right there. Which probably would have ended this tale, one way or another. Instead, that cold part of me listened. Tracy might have killed me if I had. He was as serious as I was. Except he knew what he was doing.
	“Fuck you,” I said instead. 
	“Understandable, cousin. Now let us move on.” With a single, pimp-like phrase, he had defused the entire situation. The power of words, man. His tone said the show must go on, regardless.
	I split, still fuming. But thinking. If you want to know the truth, I went as far away as I could so no one would see me cry. I probably walked ten miles that day. When I got back home (he and his mom was stayin’ with us until they got a place), I decided to call his bluff.
“Forty,” I said.
He laughed. “A first-time, family discount.” Then he put out his hand, and I gave him all the money I had in the world. When he had pocketed it, he told me, “You already failed your first test, cat. Don’t ever pay for it. That makes you a mark.”
Another wave of pain crossed my face. I aimed for anger, but I think he saw the hurt, and tried to console me, in his own way. But first he picked up the phone.
“Yes, hello, sir. May I speak to Janet, please? Thank you.”
Eloquent as hell. My man could flip modes like it was no one’s business. 
“Hey, babygirl. Daddy has a job for you… Yes. You won’ believe. Clarence.” He laughed, and she was undoubtedly laughing with him. At me. “Bring your big ass on. When you’re done, Daddy will take you shopping.”
I was stunned. 
“Now, look. I don’t feel bad. It’s game. But I will hip you to this. It’s possible for you to steal her back. You would have to put it on her so hardcore as to change her entire mentality. But it can be done. I did it.”
I didn’t say anything, but absorbed what he was saying. He had dick-whipped my best girl into being a whore, and was giving me the opportunity to try and do the same. It was, in a twisted sense, a noble gesture. 
“I’m goin’ cop some herb. Have fun.”
He shot out, and I sat on my bed, contemplating the direction my life had taken. I no longer felt the coldness I had. This was no longer theoretical, but real-life shit. And it hurt. Not twenty minutes later, and mom had let her in the house. She knocked on my door briefly, and then showed herself in.
“Hey, Clarence. Did you miss me?” She laughed. A sweet, light laugh that had always captivated me.
I stood and faced her, then moved in to kiss her. 
She stopped me. “I don’t kiss…” Instead, she leaned over my bed and pulled her skirt up.
Now, the sight of her firm, young, cinnamon ass was definitely something to behold, hurt feelings or not. But my dick was not responding in the least. This was all wrong, for me. The only thing that excited me was the thought of whipping the shit out of her. I knew that was a terrible idea, for various reasons. Not the least of which was that I was scared I wouldn’t be able to stop.
I moved up behind her and grabbed her hips. She wiggled that ass like she used to do when she was all mine, pushing back against my khakis. 
Instead of rising to the occasion, a tear fell on her. Then more followed.
I pushed away from her.
“Get out,” I said flatly.
She sat up, at first confused. Then she looked into my eyes, turned her back, and left.
That was our last conversation. I would catch her looking at me sometimes at school, but I ignored her like she didn’t exist. And that was the end of my first foray into the pimp game. I didn’t have the heart for it. Too soft, too sentimental. Too full of love.
The next week, I signed up for welding classes.

Chapter 3 – Rebranded

	I reassessed everything I knew about life, and myself. Looked at where I had been headed. Changed direction entirely. Now this ain’t some miraculous, uplifting story of turnaround, so don’t stop readin’. We will get to the good shit eventually. 
	But I considered my situation extensively. I was fourteen years old, not a year out from being a virgin myself. I had limited resources, limited opportunities, and nothing like the cut-throated soul of a player that I thought I was. On the other hand, I had a stable family life, was popular, did well in school, and still caught the eye of any local girl who had even started to have sexual thoughts of her own. Tracy couldn’t get them all.
	In other words, I was wise enough, maybe enlightened by the experience, to see that I had it pretty good, and could enjoy my youth while I had it. That didn’t mean I could coast like a square.
	Welders, you see, had it pretty good. It was hot, hard work, but it was skilled work. Mostly I knew that they made more than my teachers, looked cool as hell, and every baby mama in the hood would land one as a husband if they could. That counts for somethin’.
	I didn’t talk to Tracy much, especially a few weeks later when he and his mom moved out. Instead, I embarked on a new program for myself. Much like my drive to be a criminal womanizer, I put everything I had into learning a legal trade. My initial push to absorb all I could about the lettered arts had put me in a position where schoolwork was merely a few minutes out of my day. I looked forward to two things at school: shop and gym.
	Tracy and Janet had soured me on girls to a degree. Oh, I still fucked them. In fact, I fucked even more of them, harder and rougher. But when I wasn’t fuckin’ ‘em, I was mostly ignoring ‘em. All that shit somehow worked in my favor. Don’t ever try and apply logic to human behavior, because it clearly don’t apply.
	I took to welding pretty good. Within a few weeks, I could run a decent structural bead. And I kept getting better. Applying my drive and determination to welding guaranteed me a future. At the same time, I was at the point in my physical development that I started to make serious gains in the weight and muscle department. By the end of the year, I had shot up in height as well, and was looking close to a full-grown man by the time I was 15.
	People down age differences, role-play, intergenerational romance, all that shit, in public. The stark truth of it is, most girls (women) want a daddy, and all that represents. For such a wide-spread phenomenon, it is wildly misunderstood. Also, though, America is full of women with daddy issues. When you get to be a certain age, you learn there are grandfather issues beyond that. But whatever it is, when I wasn’t working out, or in school, I was laid up with some girl, usually one older than I was. It was probably one of the greatest periods of my early life.
	I had hit a wall at school, vocation-wise. I graduated the class with one of my only As, and found myself without access to the shop. I thought about talking to my mother for money, but I knew that was dead-end. Not that she wouldn’t give it to me, but she didn’t have it to give. I considered hustling again, briefly. My hunger was that great. Instead, I finally decided on hitting up Tracy.
	“How much you need, cuz?” It was so casual of him.
	“A machine is two hunnert.”
	He peeled off two crisp one-hundred-dollar bills.
	“I’mma need three back.”
	I looked at the money dangling in front of me. “When?”
	“A month, let’s say. Can you do that?”
	“Maaan,” I said. “I dunno.”
	“Then I’ll give you two. And, bonus, your first beatdown if you fuck me.”
	I snatched the bills from his hand, challenged like that. Like Tracy’s soft ass could beat me down.
	“I got you,” I said. Went straight to the pawn shop. 
	Now, what he didn’t know was that I had saved $70 toward it already. Plus, I had overestimated the cost. I left out of there with my first welding machine for $150, a little cheap Chinese unit small enough that I could carry it home. I used this unexpected dividend to cop a grinder for $20.  But I also had $100 toward paying him back. Everything else I had stolen from school when I still had a chance. A hood, a few pair of gloves, and some 6010 and 7018 rods.
I was going to learn to weld pipe, which is where the big money was. A subject only briefly mentioned in school, and not taught at all. As much as I wanted to get to burning rods, though, I cleaned up the machine, organized all my stuff, and hit the streets. Instead of everything around me looking like something I wanted to fuck, I suddenly only saw things that needed welding. A broken stoop railing. A fallen brace meant to hold a gutter in place. People that needed their front doors reinforced.
	Now, I know how shit works, a little bit. It’s a ghetto. Knocking on doors and asking people if they wanted their nuttin’-ass little railing fixed for $10 was never going to fly. Instead, I started looking for maintenance men. A lot of the buildings had a regular, live-in dude who fixed small things. But they spent most of their time unclogging drains. I only wished I had thought to start networking sooner.
	It took a few days of bush-beating (during which time I did very little bush-beating of the other variety), but by at the end of the week, I had made my first $30. Then I hit the motherlode. I watched an old white dude pull up to a project building in a work truck, and followed him until he was almost inside. 
	“Excuse me, sir,” I said, employing every bit of the charm I had borrowed from Tracy. Except his ass sounded fake and sarcastic compared to my sincere effort. “Do you need anything welded?”
	He stopped, entirely undisturbed by my abrupt attempt at conversation and employment, and just stared at me for a little while.
	“Yep. I actually do. Come see.”
	I followed him inside, and we took the elevator up to the rooftop mechanical room. We were almost inside when I got a tinge of fear. It was too easy, and despite the cool and easygoing vibe, it suddenly felt like a trap. I walked in behind him with my fists clenched and my muscles tensed, half-convinced he was a queer, and I was going to have to fight for my life.
	Instead, he walked me over to a stacked contraption that was the size of four big refrigerators.
	“This shit is all fucked up,” he told me. “I inherited it from the last asshole who had this job.”
	“What’s wrong with it?” I asked, finally relaxing.
	“Everything. Look. See the vent on top of the bottom one? They’re installed wrong. That’s supposed to be the top unit. Then the dumbass didn’t bolt the frame together, but welded the whole damn thing out. Not just wrong, but kinda locked in. These new boilers are useless like this.”
	I studied the situation. “So, what do we do?”
	“What do you do, you mean? I have toilets to fix, air conditioners to replace, a laundry room that is constantly falling apart, and a ball-busting wife that says I work too much as it is. What I need is for you to cut the frame apart so we can rearrange the units. Then weld it back together.”
	Suddenly I had more work on my hands than I knew what to do with.
	“Yes, sir,” I said. “I can do that.” 
	“You’re gonna have to grind out the welds so we can reuse the frame. Can you handle it?”
	I nodded, already turning the problem over in my head.
	“Good. You seem to have a good attitude. I mean, at least you don’t spit when you see me like some of these folks. You in school?”
	I nodded again.
	“Then be here tomorrow after school and start. I’ll leave a key under this trashcan. I have some grinding discs in the truck, too.”
	“I’ll be here,” I told him. Then, as an afterthought, “How much?”
	“That, son, is a good question. The best I can do is $20 a day.”
	It was fair. Pretty good money, in those days. It probably came out of his pocket, furthermore. Old George was my first real mentor, and it was kind of cool to meet someone who cared more about getting a job done than the economics behind it. Plus, he left it wide open as to how many hours I would have to work to make $20.
	“Thank you, sir,” I said, and put out my hand. My first grown-man handshake.
	“George,” he said, accepting my gesture. “And who are you?”
	“Clarence Jackson. Future welder of America.”
	He laughed. “Well, the future is now. Handle up on this, and we’ll see what else needs fixin’.”
	I walked home with my head and chest inflated, and could hardly sleep that night.

Chapter 4 – Everybody’s Workin’ For The Weekend
	
I grew up in that mechanical room. Not that I spent a protracted period there, although I did some time, fa’ sho. But that is where I became a man. Not a parody of a man like the pimps I admired. A for-really, hard-working, honest craftsman.
	Because I was fully on the honor system. That is where your true character is made, when no one is watching. Morality, Janice told me once, is what you do when people are looking. Ethics is when no one else is around. Your true self. I like that.
	All I knew was that I had to get that frame taken apart. There was no one to push me, motivate me, cheerlead me, or anything else. So, while I could have dicked around, done less, and still got paid, I saw nothing to do but get to work. After I copped a buzz and explored the mechanical room a bit. That paid off right away, because what I found, tucked away in a corner changed my life. Fucking steel pipe, man. Exactly what I needed to start working on the next level.
	Enthused by this, I attacked the frame with gusto, and by the time I was ready to go home, I had the top entirely removed, angle iron pieces cleaned up and neatly stacked, and already found myself out of work. Because the next parts were supporting the top boiler.
	When I came back the next day, George was waiting for me.
	“Good job,” he told me, and I felt a warm satisfaction at that. “But cut off the vertical pieces or we’ll never get it out of there.”
	“I was a little worried it would fall,” I told him.
	“Ha. No, that thing weighs over a thousand pounds. It ain’t going nowhere. The frame is for when it’s operational, so it doesn’t vibrate loose.”
	“A’ight.” We were already so casual I dropped the formality. We were practically peers. Just two working tradesmen, trying to tackle a project.
	“Look,” he said, “It’s Friday. I have to take my bitch-ass wife to her bitch-ass sister’s. Are you working this weekend?”
	“I can.”
	“Good.” He handed me $40. “Put in full days, and I’ll give you double for the weekend work. Capiche?”
	I didn’t know what the fuck capiche was, but I did know what double meant.
	“Hell yes,” I told him. “But what do I do? Once I get these side pieces cut off and cleaned up, I’m two-blocked until the top boiler is moved.” (Now, Janice, you know I didn’t know what that meant back then. – Tokio.) (Artistic license. – Janice.)
	“Everything you need is in that big maroon toolbox under the fan. Construction work is problem solving. You can do it.”
 	I wasn’t at all convinced that I could, but I said, “A’ight,” anyway.
	“Good. Alright, then. I’m going to sneak in a beer before I go home. Have a good weekend.”
	Just like that, he was gone, and I had potentially gotten myself in over my head.
	Shit was already givin’ me anxiety. What I found in the box didn’t help a whole lot with that. It had some wire and nylon slings, and a couple of old, rusted-up devices with levers and chains on them. Nothing we had ever covered in school, somehow.
	So, I went back and tackled what I already knew how to do. Removing the four upright pieces didn’t take too long, even cleaning them up and buttering up the spots I had cut into. The first time I ever really used my welding machine was on my first job. That’s pretty cool. But I was ahead of schedule, and back to the unknown. I made sure the door was fully shut, and lit my last reefer. If George had ever smelled it that year, he didn’t say anything about it. But I found that it helped me figure out new and complicated things, properly applied. Most people just watched cartoons and shit when they were high. For me, it was stress relief, and a tool.
	The joint dangled from my mouth as I unpacked everything in the toolbox. I laid out all the slings neatly, arranged by material, length, and color. I untangled all the damn chains and shit, unhooked the hooks from each other, and then laid out the lifting devices. Underneath all that, I found a bunch of horseshoe-lookin’ things that had threaded pins across their open ends.
	Things started to make sense. There were labels on the slings that told you what weights they were rated for. They even had examples of two ways to use them. Likewise, the mechanical things in the box (Okay, I know what they’re called now, but I didn’t back then. Plus, Janice says ‘Housewives don’t want to read about construction work, not even construction workers do.’ So, I’m trying to be brief. Not that I really care all too much about what housewives want.) had weight ratings on them, too. ¾ ton on the levered thing, and 2 tons for the chainwheel device.
	(I told Janice that I thought was way too much of a parenthetical aside, above, and she said, “I don’t tell you how to mack, so don’t tell me how to write.” She is the only person who ever talked to me like Hazel used to talk to me, and I love it.)
The only unanswered piece of the puzzle were the horseshoes. (Okay, the fuckin’ shackles.) But when I took the pin out of one, their utility became apparent. So, a gameplan had formed. I was still way too nervous about the operation, though. I had gained a little confidence now that I knew what I had to do, but not enough to move forward. Instead, I went home for dinner.
“Where you been, boy?” my mom asked me. “Out there runnin’ them streets…”
I never really let her know different. My newfound persona was still secretive as hell, and, I don’t know, life seemed simpler if she thought I was a normal hood kid doing normal hood shit.
“Sorry, mom. You know.”
I doubt she believed me, because I was dirty as hell. But she let it go. 
“Wash your hands,” was the only other thing she said to me before retiring to her room for whatever people watched on a Friday night when they only had four channels to choose from.
I emptied out the pot, which was still warm enough for me. It was chicken-n-dumplins. Shit was out of a can, but still good as hell. Anything your mother touched with her own hands was slightly better than before she had, anyway. I had a mother who cared enough to work and cook, and that was something. After I ate, I rinsed everything and left it in the sink. Now, many years later, I feel like an asshole for it. But I was still a kid, for the most part. Dishes were a mom thing, to me. I showered, and fell asleep straight away, at least as frazzled from stress as I was from the actual work.
The next morning, though, I bounded from bed, refreshed and ready to kick that job in the ass. I was in so deep, I had forgotten about weed, or girls, or anything, really. I had something to do, and something to prove, furthermore. Not to George so much as to me.
Everything was still laid out the way I had left it, so I got the tallest ladder I could, and set it up next to the boiler. Then found I couldn’t really reach out that far. So, I brought it back and got the extension one. I ran it up to the ceiling and rested it against the roof support, then climbed up to test it.
I ain’t gonna lie, it was scary. Now, imagine that. A kid runs through what is practically a warzone daily, and the first big fear of his life was climbing 14 feet in the air on a ladder.  But one does what one has to do.
I climbed all the way up to test it out, and it more or less stayed in place. I went down, put a shackle on a sling, and climbed back up. Soon, I had a place to hang something from. But that was the easy part. I had to drag the lifting device (Chainfall. – Janice.) (Shut up, Janice. – Tokio.) up there with me. And even though I was pretty strong for a kid, them shits are heavy. Prolly 50 pounds, which is a lot when you weigh 150 at most yourself.
I put it over my shoulder and let the weight of the chains sort of balance it as I climbed. At the top, I hooked it onto the shackle, and breathed a sigh of relief. Feeling clever, and proud of myself, I went back down to look at my handiwork. All good so far.
I used the chain to run the hook down until it was resting on the unit, and then slipped the two longest slings underneath it, bringing them together up top, as best I could. But they were too short. I solved this by running a third through them both, and connecting the whole thing with another shackle. (Horseshoe thing. – Janice.) (Oh, come on! – Tokio.)
I started to pull the chain to make it lift, and it worked! It probably took me twenty minutes to get that thing up, and my arms were burning’, but I did it. But it was only when I had started to run out of chain up top that I realized my error. The amount of sag in the nylon I had used to hang the chainfall with wasn’t going to give me enough clearance to move the unit out past the bottom one. All that work for nothing.
So, I ran the chain back the other way and three minutes later, all that work was undone. 
Fuck, man.
I put the ladder back, climbed up, and unhooked everything. Like a dumbass, instead of bringing the chainfall back down, I tried to adjust the sling with it on my shoulder. And dropped the motherfucker.
That shit dented the top of the boiler somethin’ awful. Looked like a car crash. I almost just…left.  Fuck it. But the more determined side of me made a few loops, reattached the shackle, and then I went down to bring up the chainfall a second time. 
When I pulled the unit up again, it was going to clear. But I hadn’t looked that far ahead, and I didn’t know what to do next. Lowering it would just put it back in the same place. By then, it was getting late. I had spent my whole day on this shit. I was about to go, and then thought better of leaving the thousand-pound machine dangling in the air. For the second time that day, I undid all my hard work. Then I went home and slept like a damn baby.
Chapter 5 – Hard-Ass, Pipe-Hittin’ Nigga

I was done fuckin’ around. When I got back the next morning, I had two choices: cut the rest of the frame apart, or use the tools I was given. Because I had a revelation on the way over. I could hoist the first unit, cut out the rest of the frame, slide the bottom one out to the side, and then lower the first back down. Then deal with the rest. Or I could let the tools work for me from the start.
The first option held a lot of appeal. Because I understood the process, and it revolved around what I knew best so far, grinding and welding. But something my shop teacher used to say to people in class resonated hard with me: “You have to be smarter than X.” X was whatever was proving to be difficult in class. Trying to grind something while you hold it one hand? Put it in a clamp. “You have to be smarter than the angle iron.” Weld is too runny? You’re operating your machine too hot. “You have to be smarter than the metal.”
I had to be smarter than these boilers. Cutting the frame apart and doing all those things, then reassembling it, might not even be doable in one day. I had a self-imposed schedule.
I ran the hook back up and elevated the unit, for what I hoped was the last time. 
First, I tried a rope. I was mostly able to pull the boiler to one side enough to lower it back down onto flat ground. But it was tough. I could only use one hand, and the other had to operate the chain. Then I kicked myself.
Ten minutes later I had figured out the levered device (Come-a-long. - Janice), and recognized its importance. I used the wire rope to attach it to a column (one that was structurally sound, lucky for me), attached the hook, and then pulled the machine solidly to the side. It was trivial after that to lower it to the floor.
I did the same thing again, lifted out the other unit, then put it on the other side. All I had to do was put the first one back in place. It wasn’t even two hours later when I had the boilers stacked the way they were supposed to go. Things were all downhill from there. In a good way. I started tackin’ the frame back together, which was pretty easy since all the pieces were already cleaned up. 
You couldn’t even see the dent I had put in the top of the unit too much unless you were looking for it. Since I had it whipped, I took my time and made some nice, pretty welds. I even capped them with the hard rods, and I feel sorry for the next kid that ever has to cut it apart. 
When it was 100%, I stood back and surveyed my work. It’s a good feeling, man, doing something like that and seeing the results. I was itching to fuck with that pipe, though, so I didn’t stand around patting myself on the back for too long. The room was a minor disaster area. I put back all the lifting stuff (Rigging. – Janice) (Delete this. – Tokio) neater than I had found it, got a broom, and swept up all the slag. Now things were in a better state than when I had even started, the job was done, and I had made eighty dollars on top of all that. 
I brought my machine over to the toolbox, and put two pieces of pipe on it. For the first time ever, I dropped my hood and welded a tack, connecting them. I rolled it 180 degrees, and added a second. It wasn’t twenty minutes before I had joined my first two sticks. 
Then I tried to weld it out. It is a lot harder to weld a curved surface like that, as I soon found out. I had to make lots of tiny welds only an inch or two long before I had to turn the pipe. That led to a lot of what we call tie-ins. Tie-ins are a weak point. But after almost a grueling hour of difficult welding, it was done. I looked inside and saw that my bead penetration was decent. No stalactites. Stalagmites. Whatever the fuck. (Drips? – Janice.) But I could do better. 
I finished my second attempt, and improved at running a continual bead, rolling the pipe in one hand as I welded with the other. It was probably nine o’clock or so when I decided I was just going to lay down and rest my eyes for a minute…
The next thing I knew, the door to the mechanical room was opening, and daylight was flooding in.
“Hol-ee shit, boy. I mean, kid. I mean, son. I mean… Clarence.”
I sat up, alarmed. I didn’t go home last night! I missed school!
“Shit,” I said, getting up.
But George didn’t give a fuck about all that.
“You weren’t supposed to finish,” he said.
“What?”
“I gave you something I didn’t think you could do. Hell, I would have had trouble with it. I just thought you would learn a lot by trying.”
“Motherfucker, what?”
“Good welds!” he said, still oblivious, and walking around the unit. “Did you work all night on this?”
“Naw. I welded some pipe. I hope that’s okay. Man, I missed school. Moms’ll be pissed.”
He pulled out his wallet and handed me a hundred-dollar bill. “Buy her something nice. Pipe welding, eh? Show me.” 
I led him back to the toolbox where I had two welded out sticks of pipe.
“Not bad, not bad,” he said. But he was nowhere near as impressed as he was with the angle iron. I thought I had done pretty damn good. “A little out of square, but maybe within tolerances. What sort of gap did you use?”
“Gap? I just welded the shit together.”
“A bevel?”
“What’s that?”
George laughed. “The wonder of a bear riding a bicycle is not that he rides it well, but that he rides it at all.”
“What’s that mean?”
“You did good. But if you’re serious about pipe welding, you have a lot to learn. Let’s take a ride.”
“What, now?”
“You got somewhere else to go?”
I thought about it. Mom was at work; school was a lost cause.
 “A’ight.”
We hopped in the truck and drove about twelve miles out of Houston proper. Suddenly I was in a world of parks and women walking dogs with strollers. A stark contrast to my usual surroundings. No boarded-up windows, no trash blowing in the gutters. People waved and smiled as we drove past.
He backed into a driveway and got down. “Come grab this box with me.”
We lifted it onto the tailgate, and the shit was heavy, for something as small a dorm fridge.
“Let’s get out of here before my wife comes out…”
Back at the apartments, George unfolded a little dolly, and we loaded the box onto it, taking it with us on the elevator. When we had it inside the mechanical room, he said, “Open it.”
That thing was slap-full of tools I had only read about, at best. 
“A pipe welder has to be a pipe fitter, just as much as he has to be a welder. In fact, for commercial work, you have to be both just to get hired.”
“What do you know about all that?” I asked him.
“Oh, pretty much everything. I fit for years, before I had to settle down and leave the life.”
“The life?” That was sounding like the way pimps talked.
“I’ve done my time on the road, making $75,000 a year.”
“Holy shit.” That was serious money back then. Doctor and lawyer money, almost.
“These people don’t pay me half of what I used to make. So, I do half as much. If they need real pipefitting and welding, they can pay for it. Go ahead and unpack the box.”
I started pulling stuff out, and he explained what everything was as I did. A lot of things I knew about, but not necessarily how to use. Levels and squares, he told me, are the first things a pipefitter needs. Other, he said, than a damn brain.
“So, look. These don’t do me any good anymore. If I tried to go on the road, my wife would leave me. Because road life is not really compatible with her lifestyle. She’s scared I would get some pussy.”
I laughed.
“You’re also getting expensive. But I can use the help. We have to pipe these boilers in, for one thing.”
“Okay…” I said, not sure where exactly he was going with this.
“If you work for me this summer, apprentice, let’s say, gratis, I’ll give you the toolbox.”
“What’s gratis?”
“Free. I would pay you with the toolbox.”
It sounded like a hustle. At the same time, I never wanted anything more in my life.
“And the tools?”
He laughed. “Of course, and the tools. I have well over $1500 in that box. Probably closer to two.”
“Damn.” It was too good of an offer to pass up. “I have school still, you know.”
“I know. I’ll come in later and you can do two hours a night during the week. Sixteen hours on the weekends. Deal?”
“Capiche,” I said, and we both laughed.
“Good deal. I have to go deal with idiots who pour hot grease down their drains and then complain when they get stopped up. But let me show you something.”
He plugged in my grinder, squinted, and held a piece of pipe with one hand while he worked the edge with the other. He rolled it as he worked, and a few minutes later, there was a sharp, even edge all the way around. It looked easy as hell, but I could already see how much better welding it would be.
“Practice making a few bevels. Then weld another two joints together. And get home before your mom does. I don’t want to catch a charge for doing a good deed.”
“I’m on it.”
“Wear some safety glasses!” he said as he walked out the door.
I was now an apprentice fitter/welder, and not too sure about going back to school at all.

Chapter 6 – Summer Lovin’

	I let myself into the apartment and found a note.
“Boy, you better not be in any trouble…
Love you,
Mom”

	It was kind of a relief. I could deal with the fallout, whatever it was. I looked for anything I could do to help out and smooth things over, but other than taking out the trash, everything was straight. One hot-ass shower later, and I was asleep.
	To be awakened a few hours later by mom. 
	She was sitting in the chair by my bed watching me sleep, when I heard her say my full name out loud. We all know what hearing your full name means. I sat up, but instead of being angry, she sat on the bed next to me and squeezed me tight.
	“I hope she was a special girl, making your mother worry all night…”
	“Ma, I-“
	“Save it, Clarence. I know what you’re about.” She smiled at me. 
	Things could have been far worse. 
	“Sorry…”
	“Do not let it happen again. If it does, you call me. Don’t worry about waking me up.”
	“I will.”
	“Now, if you miss school again, I will, in fact, whip your ass with a belt.”
	“I feel you. I won’t.”
	“Good. Because I am not into that shit.”
	We laughed together, and it felt good. We were suddenly closer than we had been in years.
	“I’ll cook dinner, if you do the dishes.”
	“I can do that…”
	“Good. You owe me that much.”
	She left me to my thoughts. I put all my money together, and had a little over $240. 
	We had dinner on TV trays in the living room that night. Chicken-n-dumplins again! But I didn’t care in the least. I was having a great week, and the future looked bright. Before she went to bed, mom kissed me goodnight, which I didn’t remembering happening for some time. It was nice.
	I laid there dreaming with my eyes open for quite a while before sleep took me.
	The next day in school was hard. That little taste of the real world I had that weekend put a patina (A pressed sandwich? – Tokio.) (That’s a panini. – Janice) over the rest of the world, dulling it. Making it through the day was hard, much less making it through the end of the year to summer. I had no firm intention of quitting school, but the thought did dwell somewhere in the recesses of my mind.
	When I made it to the mechanical room, George was already waiting on me.
	“I went ahead and picked up some pipe jacks,” he told me. “Your fit was decent. Now I’ll show you how to make it perfect.”
	We went through a lot of stuff I won’t bore you with here. Sufficed to say, my education accelerated significantly working with George. Part of what he taught me was theory. The other side was practical, and over the course of a few weeks, we had tied in the new boilers with pipe I welded, and helped run. Seeing that system turn on for the first time and work correctly was a whole new level, for me. I had built stuff that was going to last, and do things for people. I guess if you’ve never done that, it sounds corny to say. At this stage of my life, though, I can pass through a major industrial area and say, “Yeah, I helped build that.” 
	I mean, twenty years ago or whatever. But it’s still there and working.
	After the boilers, George really didn’t have need me for much. I mostly came in on weekdays to practice welding and fitting. On the weekends, we were likely to do just about any oddball maintenance jobs, and I learned a fair amount there, as well. I think he just wanted someone to hang out with, in part. I didn’t mind at all. Between the tools and all I was learning, I was leaving my peers in the dust. It meant a lot to me.
	He got his money out of me that summer, though. Working full time, I almost got the short end of the stick. Except I didn’t have to do a whole lot, other than show up. I carried a toolbag, handed him stuff, and watched as he solved a thousand different little problems. After a few weeks of that, he started sending me to fix one problem I could handle while he addressed another. We got so good at it, doing things that way, George started ending our days at two o’clock.
	“I am not giving these bastards more than they’re paying for,” he said. “We’re doing more now before noon than I used to get done all day.”
	When I had run out of regular stuff to learn, he told me to buy what’s called a Blue Book. He brought in a little oxy-acetylene torch rig, and taught me to cut with it. That little pipefitter book contained so many things that seemed simple on the surface, but were actually pretty involved to do. That summer I learned how to make things like laterals, saddles, and arbitrary pipe fittings. If that stuff sounds weird, it’s because it ain’t anything you need to know about. Just understand I was learning to be a bad-ass, old school fitter/welder, still six months from being sixteen years old.
	I thought the summer couldn’t get any better.
	One Saturday, though, George was off, and I was mostly just fuckin’ around in the mechanical room. I decided a quick trip to the store was in order. On my way off the elevator, I was accosted (Word choice. – Tokio) by a young woman who lived in the building. I say young woman, because she was obviously a fair amount older than me. Nowhere near as old as my mom, but she wasn’t a schoolgirl.
	“Can you tell George my garbage disposal is broken?” she asked me, like we talk every day or something.
	“Sure. But he’s not here today. Monday, I will.” I pushed on ahead to go get me some Doritos and a Coke.
	“Could you come look at it…?”
	I was kind of used to doing maintenance stuff by that point, and I didn’t think it would take long. 
	“Okay. I’m sure he wouldn’t have a problem with that.”
	“Thank you!” she said. And hugged me. Like, hugged me hugged me. She pushed them big titties up against me hard, and smelled divine.
	At her apartment, which was tidy and smelled good as well, I flipped the switch on the disposal, and nothing happened, other than a low humming noise. I turned it back off, and stuck my hand in it.
	“Woah! Be careful,” she told me. 
	I felt around inside until I put my fingers on a metal handle, and pulled. Out came an entire baby feeding spoon.
	“I was wondering where that thing was!” she said.
	This time when I tried the switch, it worked.
	“Yay! Smart man!”
	It was kind of cool, her calling me a man, and meaning it. She didn’t know I was just leaving junior high school.
	“I guess you don’t need George anymore.”
	“No, I do not,” she told me. Thinking back, it was said a bit more pointedly than it needed to be. “I’m Yolanda. But call me Yo-Yo. Everybody does.”
	“A’ight, Yo-Yo. Have a good one.”
	“Thanks again! You, too. What’s your name?”
	“Oh. Clarence. I work for George.”
	“I know. I’ve been seein’ you around a lot, up and down the elevator.”
	“Cool. Well, if you ever need anything, I’m usually up on the roof in the mechanical room.”
	“Nice! I’ll be looking for you.”
	I left out of there focused on my damn cold drink and chips. I didn’t pay much attention to what she was saying. Active listening, I came to realize later, is an important skill to have.
	At the little bodega, I got myself a snack, and headed back to finish up for the day. And just happened to run into Deezer. D was a kid I had grown up with, but we really hadn’t talked much since before school ended, me being so wrapped up in the things I was doing.
	“Clarence, my man. You know anyone who wants one of these fat Optimos?”
	He showed me a big-ass cigar.
	“Prolly. My cousin. How much?”
	“Two dollars, bruh.”
	“Shit. Give me one, then.”
	We made the swap, and I told him to swing by the house sometime. The motherfucker had five dollars’ worth of weed or more in a two-dollar cigar. Whatever the economics behind that was, I didn’t care.
	Back in the penthouse, which is what George had told me was the legitimate name for the mechanical room, I set up a fit using all the new techniques I’d learned. Then I lit that cigar and blazed as I tacked and adjusted it. I had just started welding it out in earnest when I heard someone say, “Can I hit that?”
	Yolanda. And she had a glass of lemonade. And she was looking fine as hell, in a wifebeater, no bra, and some tight-ass blue shorts.
	“Of course,” I told her, and gestured for her to sit down on my box with me.
	I traded the blunt for the lemonade, and took a big sip. She took a big hit.
	We passed it back and forth a few times in silence, then she said, “Now, do you want to hit this…?”
	I fucked her right there on my toolbox. It was different than it had been with girls from school. I’m not sure all the ways how, but it was different. She was hungrier. When we were done, it wasn’t awkward or anything. She put on her shorts, kissed my cheek, said, “Thank you, daddy…” and went out the door.
	Mind. Blown.

Chapter 7 – Clack Clack

	Between my apprenticeship, and Yolanda’s friends-with-benefits arrangement we seemed to have, the summer just kept getting better.
	Then my cousin got shot.
	Dummy had stepped on the wrong toes, and charmed the pants off the wrong girl. He had stolen a pimp’s number one trick, and that is a lot more serious than taking someone’s girlfriend in high school. The shame of losing her to some kid who didn’t even have a car must have been too much for dude to take. 
	Because Tracy was dead as fuck.
	Now, that was a little upsetting to me, I’m not gonna lie. But I wasn’t all that surprised. And it’s really an everyday thing. There are cats out there who ain’t playing with fire and still catch a bad one. He should have known better. It was only later that I learned that’s why there are very few old pimps. It was a far rougher trade than I had imagined.
	Janet showed up at the house, crying, and looking a lot worse for wear from a few months earlier. “They shot my man,” she told me, sobbing. Then added, “Can you score me some coke?”
	I shut the door in her face.
	Now, moms and auntie were not taking this well at all. It wasn’t supposed to happen to them. I wondered if they had any idea of the life he had been living, but kept that shit to myself. It wouldn’t help anything, for sure. They cried for days.
	After the funeral, I looked forward to things getting back to normal again, sad to say. I had told George I needed some time off, and didn’t say anything at all to Yo-Yo. 
	Mom had other ideas.
	“You’re going to L.A.”, she told me. “It’s too dangerous here.”
	How in the fuck did she think L.A. was safer? I think it was mostly because she had an aunt there herself, and she lived in the suburbs. Affluent, by local standards. We fought about it for days. I had half a mind to move out. Go live in the mechanical room and shit. Maybe slide in with Yolanda and let her pay my rent. 
	In the end, it was George that convinced me to go.
	“Look, I’m sorry,” he said, “But Fifth Ward, for all its charm, is a cesspool. California is wide open. You should give yourself the opportunity. It’s not forever, right?”
	“No.” My aunt and mother were going to move in together, save up, and move the fuck out of the hood. Then they would bring me home. That was the plan, anyway.
	“Your toolbox will still be here when you get back. You’ve got a key to the room. Go out there and get some beach air. See what it’s about. Then come back and take care of your mom.”
	I couldn’t argue with that logic. As much as it pained me to leave it all behind, I decided to go.
	I did see Yo-Yo, though. 
	“Where you been, daddy?” she asked me. “I missed you!”
	I explained the situation, and in the process, she divined that I was several years younger than she thought. 
	“Boy, I thought you were the new building maintenance man. I was gonna let you be my daddy for real…”
	“I’m sorry,” I said. “It wasn’t on purpose.”
	“I know. That’s on me. You are fine.”
	“I’d like to see you again when I get back. If that would be okay.”
	“Fuck me one more time, daddy… and if you tell anyone, it will never happen again.”
	It didn’t take much for her to convince me.

Chapter 8 – The Jackson Family

	I found myself on a plane to L.A. with a duffle bag of clothes, two pair of shoes, and little else. Great-aunt Tilly was there at the airport, someone I hadn’t seen since I was three or some shit. I didn’t recognize her. But she knew who I was, and greeted me warmly. In the car, she said, “Give me any trouble, and I will whoop your ass.” And that was all she had to say on that subject.
	We drove on the freeway for what seemed like an hour, got stuck in traffic a few times. Houston’s big, okay? You can prolly fit ten Houstons in L.A. with room to spare. And it all looks the same. She wove through a bunch of neighborhoods before finally arriving on a street that looked like all the other streets, at a house that looked like all the other houses. We were pretty far from the beach, I’ll say that.
	“Home sweet home,” she told me. “Let’s get you settled in, Clarence. It’ll be nice to have a man around the house for a change. I guess.”
	Aunt Tilly had never married, and there was a lot of speculation about that in the family. Certainly, nothing explained little Maxxy.
	When we walked in the door, a little girl with braids down to her ass said, “I ain’t sharin’ no room with no buster-ass mark, herb muhfukka like this chump.” 
She couldn’t have been more than eight. Aunt Tilly didn’t even flinch. “This is Clarence, your cousin, I suppose. You won’t be sharing a room, because you’ll sleep with me, or on the pull-out couch.”
	“Mom, noooo! I need my stuffies! And, and my radio!”
	“A boy this age needs his own space. And you’re going to welcome him.”
	Aunt Tilly was the only person who could keep Maxxy in check like that.
	“Hi, Max,” I said, trying to be friendly.
	“Step off,” she told me, and slammed the door to her bedroom.
	“She’ll be okay,” Tilly told me. “She’s at that age.”
	But I couldn’t tell what age that was. She was somehow both far older than her physical age, and younger, as well. 
	“Was your flight okay? Are you hungry?”
	“It wasn’t bad. Landing was my favorite part. I’m starving, though.”
	She started pulling containers out of the refrigerator until half the table was covered. “I’m afraid all I have are these stuffed pork chops and mashed potatoes. Oh, and green beans. Well, you can finish off this gravy. Do you like dinner rolls? How are you with salads?”
	But she didn’t even let me answer, just kept piling stuff onto my plate. And she had a microwave, something I had only seen in 7-11s and stuff, before. She put a small salad bowl in front of me with three different kinds of dressing, and poured me a glass of milk. This was definitely a switch, for me. I bet she didn’t even have a can of chicken-n-dumplins in her house.
	“So, Tracy got himself blasted,” she said when I started eating. “Ain’t that some shit?”
	“Yes, ma’am,” I said. “A tragedy.”
	I looked her in the eyes when I said it, and we both ended up laughing out loud.
	“Damn fool-ass kid. His mama told me what’s up.”
	I was curious as to what his mother’s perception was, and how much she knew, but I didn’t ask. Looking back, it was probably obvious that he was into some criminal things. His mother was no more well off than my own. It was possible that she even supported his moves. I left the statement hanging in the air and merely shook my head in agreement.
	The microwave dinged, and the awkwardness dissipated with the sound. 
	I tore into that food like you wouldn’t believe. The only time I got to eat stuff like that was when mom brought a box lunch home from work sometimes, like someone was having a fundraiser, things like that. I learned it was an everyday thing at Aunt Tilly’s. I probably put on thirty pounds that year.
	After I ate, we talked for a bit in the living room. Tilly was the first person I opened up to about how my summer had gone, the things I had done and learned. She was a good listener, and real supportive. I don’t think my own mom would have been that way. She would have thought it was good, but in a low-energy sort of way. Mom was too caught up in daily survival to be very enthusiastic about anything.
	After she had absorbed what I had told her, she said, “I have a friend with a mechanic shop. Would you like me to talk to them about getting you a job?”
	There was still a month of summer left over.
	“That would be great. But what about school?”
	“Maxine Jackson! Get your butt in here!”
	Maxxy stomped out, lip still puffed out. “I was sayin’ good-bye to my stuffies,” she said.
	“Oh, for heaven’s sake. We’re not going to burn them.”
	“He’s probably going to hump them, though,” she said to her mother. We both couldn’t help but laugh.
	“Stop. Be nice. Tell your cousin what you’re studying.”
	She sighed. “Right now, mostly geometry and algebra. I hafta read Canterbury Tales, and I hate it. Then I hafta write a paper on it. I hate that even more.” Then she turned and went back to her room, having completed her mother’s request.
	“I have to keep her home with me. I mean, I don’t have to. But it’s a crazy world out there. More to the point, the schools are shit. She already knows more than the people who manage to graduate high school here.”
	“She knows more than me,” I said, soberly.
	“That will change. Well, not fully. I’m pretty sure she’s not a normal kid. Wait. I am being too faint in my praise. Maxxy is exceptional. But she’s a good teacher, and so am I. If you want, I can make arrangements with the school board and enroll you in homeschooling with her.”
	“Can I think about that?” It was a tough call. I could see how having a job would be good, and also learning more than a school could teach. But I’d be missing out on a lot. Girls, primarily. That was my real concern.
	“Of course. You have time. I’m sure they would be glad to have you work at the shop even until school starts, if that’s what you want.”
	Aunt Tilly was real cool like that. She was like, I don’t know, a Montessori mom (A what? – Tokio.) (Go with it. – Janice.) or some shit. I guess that’s how they were out west. It was in stark contrast to the “My way or no way” of southern parents. At least in my limited experience.
	“I’m going to bed,” she said shortly after our conversation. “You can use Maxxy’s bathroom to take a shower. I hope you like pink soap, pink shampoo, and fluffy pink towels…”
	I laughed. “Thank you, Aunt Tilly. I’ll be fine.”
	“Look,” she said. You’re almost a grown-ass man, and our great aunt/nephew status makes me feel really old. How about you just call me Til?”
	“I’ll try,” I said. Like I told you, she was just cool like that. “Goodnight… Til.”
	“Don’t take any shit from Maxxy,” she said, walking away. “Lord knows she’ll give it.”
	Aunt Tilly had put all the food away while I ate, and then washed my dishes as soon as I had finished eating, so there wasn’t much left to do but shower and sleep. Just like she said, that bathroom looked like a unicorn got sick in there. If something wasn’t pink, it was sparkly. I came out of it smelling like fruit and bubblegum. 
	I sat my ass on the couch in fresh clothes, and was about to see what L.A. TV had to offer, when Maxxy made an entrance.
	“Come see,” she said, in her commanding little girl way that left no room for argument.
	“These are my stuffies. If you molest them, I will kill you while you sleep. This is Klip-Klop. He looks like a horse, but he has powers. He’s like a unicorn, but more low-key. So, no horn. This is Mrs. Beasley. She was my mom’s, and I hate her. Not my mom, but Mrs. Beasley.”
	It was a pretty ugly and scary white lady doll, to be fair.
	“This is the Bear family. Barry White, Barry Manilow, Barry Goldwater, and Barry Gibb.”
	I couldn’t stop laughing. Maxxy was doing a damn comedy routine for me.
	“These are my Barbies. There’s white-ass Barbie, other white-ass Barbie, even whiter-ass Skipper, and black Barbie. Who looks just like white Barbie, but a little more tan. It’s bullshit.”
	I laughed again.
	“Hands off. Absolute. Now, I have decided that you can use the radio. When you finish, you are to put the dial back to 95.6, and the volume is to remain on a minimum of 4, and a maximum of 6. Got it?”
	I shook my head, smiling. 
	“Repeat it back for me, then.”
	“Niny-five six, 4 to 6.”
	“You could enunciate a bit better, you know.”
	This little kid was more eloquent and demanding than my teachers were. 
	“Now, note the sad and small black and white TV in my possession.”
	It was indeed tiny and colorless. But I didn’t have my own TV back home at all. 
	“It is entirely off limits. And here’s why.”
	She removed a little plastic slipcover thing from a square, flat box. It said “Timex-Sinclair ZX-81.”
	“What’s that?”
	“That, my rube of a cousin, is a computer. The future.”
	“It don’t even look like a typewriter, hardly.” But I had never seen a computer in someone’s house, ever. I didn’t know that was a thing.
	 “Observe.” She turned it and the TV on, and in a few seconds, there was a black screen with a flashing white underline. Maxxy pecked away at it, and the little tape recorder hooked up to it started whirring.
	“Okay,” she said, “It’s a little slow.”
	When it had stopped, she typed something else on thekeyboard, and the screen cleared, replaced with a question. “What is your name?” the screen said. 
	“Go ahead. Answer it,” she told me.
	I typed out “clarence”, and she reached over to press enter since I didn’t. 
	“clarence,” the screen said, “you are a butt.”
	Then Maxxy giggled her ass off.
	“Very funny. You wrote this?”
	“Of course. I have a lot of little programs like that. When mama gets off her own butt and gets me a printer, I’m going to put them all into one big one.”
	“She lets you curse like that?”
	“What’s she gonna do, banish me to Rigel-5, or the outer kingdoms?”
	“Wut?” 
	“Cousin, you are a delight. Tabula rasa. I’m going watch Johnny Carson. Night night.”
	Maxxy was wild. I wasn’t going to even ask her what tabula rasa was. I was having enough of an inferiority complex with her as it was. Johnny Carson was some boring adult stuff that I couldn’t imagine any kid watching for fun. 
	When I got up later to go to the bathroom, I saw her asleep on the couch, TV blaring, and the light still on. I covered her up a little, shut everything off, and went back to my unicorn pillow and blanket. 
	It already felt more like home than home did.

Chapter 9 – Welcome to the Jungle

	Aunt Tilly didn’t seem to work, as such, but that didn’t mean she stayed home all the time. I woke up to a note, and a bowl of cereal. Maxxy got up a little while later, and fixed her own breakfast. After we had eaten in silence, save for the constant Captain Crunching, I washed the dishes and put everything away.
	Maxxy got dressed, and came back into the living room.
	“Cousin,” she said. “I require your services. I need you to, oh, how would one say this in a way that someone such as yourself could understand? Take me to da sto’.”
	She could be, at the same time, melodramatic, funny, and insulting. 
	“I can do that,” I said, and moved to put my shoes on.
	“You can’t wear that, though,” she said. “Change your shirt.”
	I looked down at my Coca-Cola shirt, which was clean, and I had always thought looked fresh.
	“What’s wrong with it?”
	“Just find a neutral color. Trust me.”
	I came back with a grey Cowboys jersey. 
	“That is just barely acceptable.”
	I thought she was being funny.
	When we stepped outside, Maxxy said, “The store is six blocks away. One street up to the left is Piru set. The parallel street in the other direction is Crib. After three blocks, we will pass into a side street controlled by some minor league Mexicans known as Kings Beyond Control. Choose wisely.”
	This sounded like more fanciful Maxxy storytelling. So, we started down the street to the right.
	“Interesting,” she told me. “Try not to make eye contact.”
	I started to understand what she was saying. It was beginning to sound like Fifth Ward, all of a sudden. I stopped walking and said, “What are you talking about?”
	“Gangs, cousin. Surely you’re no stranger to that.”
	But I was. We didn’t really play much gang shit where I lived. If we lived on the same street, we were likely a loose-knit fraternity, but there wasn’t anything formal about it. The higher-level criminals all seemed to be solo and independent. Suddenly, a walk to the store felt like the most dangerous thing I had ever done. At least since climbing my first ladder.
	“This is a neighborhood,” I said.
	“That’s a great observation, Clarence.”
	“I mean, these are houses.”
	“Excellent deduction.”
	“Fucking stop it, Maxxy.” That got her attention. “What I’m saying is that this hardly seems like the place for a bunch of gangs.”
	“Nevertheless. Tread lightly, that’s all.”
	This time, I made her hold my hand as we walked, and she didn’t shrink away from that. When we turned down the first side street, she said, “Blue”. I didn’t pay much attention. About halfway down, though, I noticed that almost everyone I saw, mostly dudes sitting on the porch, were wearing blue plaid. And sunglasses, thinking about it now.
	At the second block, she said, “Left here. How’s your Spanish?”
	“Pretty not good.”
	“Pobrecito…”
	I would have learned a lot more that year if I asked Maxxy what she meant when she said shit that I didn’t understand, instead of playing it off and ignoring her.
	We made our way down the block, and it was indeed a Mexican street. It was kind of wild how segregated things were like that. We were almost to the next turn that would put us in sight of the convenience store that was our destination when a dude stepped onto the sidewalk in front of us. He had a brown plaid shirt with the top two buttons connected over a white t-shirt and khakis.
	“¿Órale. Adónde vas?”
	“Nos vamos a la tienda,” she rattled off without hesitation.
	“Bien,” he said, and smiled as he stepped back out of the way.
	When we had turned the corner, I said, “What the fuck was that about?”
	“He was a lookout. Just doing his job. He asked where we were going, and I told him.”
	“That’s crazy. We wouldn’t take no Mexican sweating us where I’m from.”
	“Well, here, you would be shot dead. So, there’s that.”
	I found I didn’t have anything else to say. What little bravado I had was fading fast.
	Maxxy was literally a kid in a candy store when we got there. She wanted everything. The first thing she did was get a little brown bag from the clerk and start filling it with a big assortment of the nickel candies like Now-N-Laters. Then she grabbed a candy bar. Then she grabbed some kind of rainbow fruit candy I had never seen before.
	“Woah, I only have three dollars,” I told her.
	She laughed. “Literally a poor little thing. This one is on me, noble escort.”
	That was both demeaning and sweet at the same time. Even at her age, she was a master of keeping you off-balance. She ran a strong mental game, which I had never really encountered before in anyone. I got myself a Coke and a honeybun, and we went to the counter.
	“$6.56,” the clerk said. Holy shit, that was high.
	I pulled out my little nothing-ass money, and Maxxy said, “Keep it.” Instead, she handed him a twenty. When he gave her the change, she said, “Incorrect. You owe me four cents.” Then she just stared him down until he slid four pennies over the counter to her. “That’s better. Have a superlative existence.”
	Outside the store, she peeled the wrapper off her Hershey bar. “Gotta eat this before it melts. Let’s go back the other way. You might as well get the full ride.”
	I didn’t really like the sound of that. Already, I felt better about the relatively known qualities of the streets we had already safely navigated. “You sure?”
	“As sure as one can be in this chaotic world of random chance.”
	I mean, who talks like that? 
	But we headed back on the second route. When we turned onto the street that connected to our home block, Maxxy said, “Red,” through a mouthful of Laffy Taffy. At this point, I didn’t even question what she was saying. Of course, she was right. But it was the same shit, just a different color. No one really wanted to fuck with us. 
	Until someone did. 
	We were almost to the end of the second block, when a cat my age stepped up to the sidewalk before we passed.
	“What set you claimin’?” he asked me.
	“What?”
	“Gangs are gay,” Maxxy said.
	“Bitch--“ the kid said. But before he could say more, I had busted him in his mouth. Hard. When he hit the ground, a pistol fell out of the back of his waistband.
	“Get it,” Maxxy said. “Let’s go.”
	Dude was laid out. But it seemed to be the sensible thing to do. Plus, Maxxy was so sure of herself. I grabbed it and stuffed it into the front of my pants.
	Once we were safely back inside, she said, “Cousin, could we perhaps keep this adventure to ourselves, and away from the delicate ears of my parental unit?”
	“I think that’s a good idea,” I said.
	“She wouldn’t like me eating all this candy.”
	“What about the gun?”
	“What gun?” Maxxy said. 

Chapter 10 – Dead Poets Society

	I checked out the pistol in my room. Maxxy’s room. A .45 semi-automatic. I didn’t know that, then. But it was a serious hand-cannon. I hid that shit deep in the back of the closet, and hoped I would never need to use it. But I had it, all the same. From what I could tell, that was a good thing, too.
	Aunt Tilly rolled back at about noon. I helped her bring in about twelve bags of groceries. Enough to fill the whole back seat, and restock her already laden larder. (I would never say some shit like that. – Tokio.) (You just did. – Janice.)
	I also helped put everything away, guided by the constant corrective direction of Maxxy. She was super organized like her mother. I know it’s wrong to say, but I began to admire Aunt Til more than I did my own mom. That’s probably normal for most kids, I don’t know. She had instilled some great habits into her daughter at an early age, and those habits later took her far in life. I felt a little neglected in that I hadn’t really ever been taught shit as far as valuable life lessons went. But I was making up for lost time.
	After we had sandwiches, which was the closest thing Til ever made that came close to pre-cooked, she said, “Clarence, I have a few more things to attend to, today. Would you mind staying with Maxxy at the library with her little peer group for a few hours?”
	“No, of course not.”
	“Good. I’ll drop you guys off. And I’ll be back before five.”
	“The library closes at six, mama bear,” Maxxy told her.
	“I said five.” And that was the end of the discussion.
	Maxine went into her room, and came back with a pile of books that was almost half as tall as she was. 
	“Okay, I’m ready,” she said.
	“Did you really read all these?”
	“We only go once a month. Mama says it’s to ‘socialize’. But, no. I read the important parts of all of them, read three of them completely, and skimmed the rest. If you must know.”
	I hadn’t read that many books in my entire life, and the ones I had were assigned in school. I grabbed her stack, and we went out to the car. Aunt Til didn’t notice, but I looked up and down both sides of the street as we approached the car. Maxxy did, though, and I sensed a slight bit of approval from her, furthermore.
	The library was a few miles away, which was good. Too far to walk, at least with a little girl. I was relieved. I had enough excitement for one day. Maxxy read the whole way over there, finishing the last little bit of a book as we pulled up. It was called “The Crying of Lot 49” by a cat named Thomas Pynchon. I tried to read that shit twenty years later, and I still didn’t understand it. (I’m not sure anyone fully understands Pynchon. Even Pynchon. – Janice.)
	At the library, Aunt Til kept the car running. “Here’s five dollars for snacks. And a gas bill. Show it to the librarians, and tell them you’re with Maxxy. They’ll probably let you get a library card. Maxine keeps mine so full I can hardly squeeze a book in for me from time to time. I’ll be back by five.”
	“Six,” Maxxy said.
	“Five.”
	 Inside, we put the books on the return counter, and Maxxy ran squealing to the kid section, which was outfitted with little kid couches and chairs, where she was greeted by her friends. They were all cute, well-dressed little girls like her, but ran the gamut of races. Mostly black girls, but two white ones, an Asian, and I guess a Latina, South American or something. Not exactly what I was expecting.
	“Sup, sup?” one of the little white girls asked her.
	“Ain’t no thang, can’t complain, get passed like a muhfukka.”
	“You know that shit.”
	“Mm-hmm,” the Asian girl said.
	“Had to break a fool off,” Maxine told them. “Nigga jaw got jacked.”
	“Handle yo’ bizness,” one of the black girls said. The sight of her in her flowered-print dress, looking like something out of a painting, stood in stark contrast to her speech.
	“Maxxy,” I said. “What are you doing?”
	“We’re role-playing, cousin. Preparing ourselves for the world at large.”
	It was too weird for me. I went to get a library card, which was pretty painless, and only cost a dollar. The kid books didn’t interest me. I really missed out on a good opportunity as a result. I’m not ashamed to tell you that I now love Judy Blume’s stuff. Not the ones where she got all teenage and freaky, writing about wet dreams and shit. The simple, wholesome ones about eating turtles and getting food dumped on your head. It almost reads like sci-fi, to me, it’s so foreign to my upbringing. But they make me nostalgic, all the same. 
	I wandered the stacks for a while, not really knowing what I was looking for. There were too many choices, and I had nothing to go off of but titles and genres. I was interested, but not equipped enough to know what I was interested in, exactly.
	“Psst, cousin,” Maxxy said from behind me. I turned around, and she had a small pile of books in her hands. “Come read with us…”
	I took them from her and followed her back to their little nook. Far from the noisy and chattering group they were twenty minutes earlier, they were all nose-deep and engrossed. It was so surreal, I would have thought it was a prank if I hadn’t known Maxxy.
	One was reading a book called “The World is Full of Married Men”. I could tell from the cover that it was way too adult for her. Adult in an adult way, not that it was beyond her capacity. It was by a woman named Jackie Collins, who I found out much later in life was my friend Janique’s favorite author. Well, aside from Tom Robbins and Chris Turner. In other words, it was trashy as hell.
	Another one had “Wuthering Heights”, and I still don’t know how anyone can read that shit. I never even tried, with stuff like that. It might be a classic, but I can’t get into stories like that.
	One girl had a book almost as big as she was. It was so thick, she had to put it on a table to read it. The fucking Gulag Archipelago, by an author who’s name I still can’t pronounce right. (Aleksandr Soul-Za-Neat-Sin. - Janice.) (You turned my attempt at a joke into a public shaming. – Tokio.)
	Little Maxxy was apparently taking it light, reading something called “The Moon is a Harsh Mistress”. She told me about it later, and I eventually read it myself before she turned it back in. 
	I sat down and looked at the books in my lap.
	“The Art of War” by Sun Tzu. “Don’t You Turn Back” by Langston Hughes. “Pimp” by Iceberg Slim. At the sight of this one, I glanced over at Maxxy, who was too focused to notice. Had she read this shit herself? The bottom book was called “A Wrinkle in Time” by who I guess is a French lady, Madeleine L’Engle. 
	As bad as I wanted to check out the pimp book, I was way too self-conscious of my situation and setting. Instead, I hid it under the other ones. The Wrinkle in Time one actually looked interesting. But that would have made me the only person reading a kid’s book in the entire group. Not cool.
	Instead, I settled on Art of War.
	It was easy to get into, in a sense. The language was very clear and concise. But I wasn’t involved in war or politics, so it didn’t take hold right away. A chapter in or so, and I realized this cat was talking about life. Treating the world at large as a battlefield. That shit stayed with me to this day, and I used to make other people read it, later on. Hazel read it. Maybe she took to it too well, herself.
	 I didn’t look up again for a long while, until Maxxy jumped up and said, “Snack time!” and the other girls cheered. It was just crazy how they flipped back and forth between what you expected of kids that age and stuff that you would never imagine. 
	She put out her hand, and I gave her what was left from the five Aunt Til had given me. “Never spend your own money when you can spend someone else’s,” she told me. Then they all ran to the stairwell vending machines. I gotta say, the librarians were real cool with them. They never told them to be quiet, stop running, no eating in the library, nothin’. And it wasn’t out of laziness or a lack of concern. They seemed to know these girls were special, and treated them like little grown-ups. They were given a respect that I rarely saw adults granted. I guess to a librarian, they were pretty remarkable all on their own, just because of the stuff they read. 
	They came back loaded down with cookies, cakes, candy, drinks, chips. Way more than the little four dollars could have afforded them. Later on, I learned that only Maxxy lived in the relative hood we occupied. What was a suburb to us in Fifth Ward was still pretty much just ghetto plus for L.A.
	“Thank you, Clarence,” the little Asian girl who was reading the Jackie Collins told me. The way she looked at me, and the purr in her voice made me uncomfortable. They ate and chattered, talking about what they were all reading, school stuff, boys. The usual kid talk, in part. 
	After a few more minutes had passed, Maxxy jumped up. “Shit, moms is comin’.” She unfolded a list from her pocket and went to retrieve her month’s reading material. Most of the other girls did the same. The little Asian girl stayed behind.
	“So,” she said, “What do you think of Soon Zoo?”
	“Which one is that?” I asked her. “The one in the African print?”
	She laughed. “The book you are currently reading so intently that you have failed to notice me.”
	“Oh. Haha. It’s real cool. I never would have picked this one up on my own, but now I can’t put it down.”
	“That’s a good indication of character,” she told me. “You might read ‘The Prince’ by Niccoló Machiavelli after that one. They’re practically companion pieces.”
	“You’ve read these?”
	“Of course. Who recommends a book they haven’t read themselves?”
	Damned if this girl wasn’t more sophisticated than anyone outside of Maxxy and Aunt Til, and maybe more so. It was unnerving. We talked for a while, but I was glad when Max and the others came back. Maxine had to make two trips, she was so loaded down.
	They talked about their new titles and I read some more, until I heard the voice of Aunt Til say, “Hey, kids. Did you have a good day?”
	“Yes!” they all told her at once. 
	“Good to hear. Y’all ready? Does anyone need a ride?”
	They shook their heads no, said their goodbyes, and then the Asian girl, Sarah, I learned, piped up. She was actually Vietnamese, by the way. “I could use a ride…”
	Gulp. 
	“No problem,” Aunt Tilly told her. “Bye, girls! Have a good month.”
	Maxxy and her friends hugged and said their goodbyes, and one of the white girls actually kissed her on the lips. I thought that was a little weird, but Aunt Til didn’t seem to think so. We all carried armloads of books to the car, and had to put them in the trunk, there were so many.
	“Clarence, you can ride in the front again if you want,” Til said.
	“No, he’s riding in the back with us,” Maxxy told her. She got in, sat in the middle, and I got in beside her. But before I could close the door, Sarah caught it. “Scoot over,” she told me. I was trapped. Looking back now, I think they planned that shit.
	We drove north on the freeway until the city faded away a bit, and I started to see the ocean again. Aunt Til wove her way up some hills, and she obviously knew her way around the area. I found Sarah’s hand on my leg. Maxxy giggled. I took it off and put it back in her lap.
	She moved it back, and this time squeezed my thigh. I was going to move it again, when Maxxy said, “Clarence, tell mama about our day…”
	It was so deliberate of her, in tone and phrasing, I knew what she was doing, even if Auntie Til didn’t. I was checkmated once again. I really needed to finish The Art of War just to deal with Maxxy’s Machiavellian machinations. (Okay, that was a good one. I wish I had actually said that shit. – Tokio.) I just bullshitted her about the library trip, of course. There was no way I was telling her we had walked into some crazy gang territory.
	We dropped Sarah off at this place that looked like some movie star shit. I mean, perfect lawn, giant house behind a big gate. I bet the view was amazing, the ocean in one direction, and L.A. in the other. She gave my thigh one final squeeze, said, “Nice meeting you…” and hopped out. To my great relief.
	They got out and took her books from the trunk, walking her to the front door.
	On the way back home, Aunt Til said, “Who’s down for ice cream?”
	“Oh my god, me!” Maxxy said. And that was all it took. We pulled into a Sonic and ate it all on the way home, Aunt Til included.
	When we got back home, I lugged books into Maxxy’s room, and when I had her alone, hissed, “If one of your friends ever touches me like that again, you can go to the library by yourself.”
	She laughed. “What? She was just practicing on you. How did she do?”
	“A little too good, if making me feel awkward as hell was her goal. You need to tell her to stop. And if any of her friends want to ‘practice’, tell them to look elsewhere.”
	Maxxy saw how serious I was. “Fine. It won’t happen again.”
	It’s a good thing, because damn, she was better at it than I would have ever admitted to anyone before now.

Chapter 11 – Watt’s Up

	Aunt Til fried chicken, whipped potatoes, made gravy, and boiled ears of corn and sliced carrots. The woman was a dynamo. To this day, I have never eaten better in my life. Maxxy sat on the couch finishing her first new tome, and I was in her room, anxious to check out the Iceberg Slim, a sort of book I had never known existed. 
	Maxine came in shortly after I went in, and saw me with it.
	“Entirely predictable,” she said. “But take this, and come read with me,” she said, handing me the Hughes book instead.
	“Why?”
	“Respect the hustle. Read ‘Mother to Son’, first. And be ready.”
	I had no idea what she was talking about, but she had such a commanding tone and a surety when she spoke, I didn’t argue. We sat down and I looked for that poem. It was good, and made me a little sad, really. Pretty soon I was engrossed, flipping through it and picking out whatever caught my eye to read. Aunt Til eventually noticed.
	“Oh, Langston Hughes! How delightful, Clarence. What do you think?”
	I hadn’t had a lot of time to actually think, but damn if Maxxy wasn’t the craftiest kid I had ever met. 
	“It’s cooler than I thought,” I said. “Some of the language is kinda weird.”
	“Ah, yes. He does get a bit overblown in his usage of colloquialisms. Some of it reads like a parody of black speech, today. But, as we say, it was a different time.”
	“Amos and Andy-ass,” Maxxy said.
	“Maxine! I would be upset, except you’re right, in a sense. But you have to consider his intent.”
	She went back to taking out hot pieces of chicken and putting them on paper towels to drain.
	“See?” Maxxy said. 
	“Da fuck is a colloquialism?”
	“Informal speech.”
	She went back to her book, and I to mine. It was a far cry from Fifth Ward, in every respect. But it was also nothing like I had imagined L.A. was going to be. We were both lost in other worlds when Aunt Tilly said, “Come eat!”
	“Thank you, mama,” Maxxy said. But brought her book to the table.
	“No,” her mother told her. “Not tonight, and not with chicken. It’s a library book.”
	“Fine…” She closed it and brought it back to the couch.
	“We can talk about what you’re reading, though,” Til offered.
	Max brightened at this prospect considerably, and I just ate and listened.
	“Well,” Maxxy said, “It’s really more of a novella. Robert Heinlein.”
	“Your father loved Heinlein!” Til said. This was the first time either of them had mentioned him.
	“I know, mama. His copy was the first one I read, remember?”
	“The hippie one.”
	“Yes, the hippie one.” Maxine looked at me, “It’s not really a hippie book, but those people loved it. It’s actually a repackaging of the Christ mythos, as many good sci-fi stories are. Childhood’s End by Arthur Clark, for example.” She ended her brief attempt to educate me on the subject, and turned back to her mother. “This one is an odd mix of views, somehow solidified into a single coherent one. It is anti-state, but at the same time, there is a serious ethos at work that becomes effectively a state, while remaining at the same time, anarchic and laissez-faire.”
	Maxxy was way over my head. 
	“Interesting.”
	“So, yeah. They go to the moon to get away from Earth oppression.”
	“Oh, like The Other Foot by Bradbury.”
	“Well… Kind of. For one thing, there aren’t really any black people in any Heinlein stories, from what I can tell. And that Bradbury one is kind of heavy-handed. He should have called it ‘Last Nigger to Mars’. I would have. This is more generalized, I guess you’d say. But they do share the same spirit, overall.”
	“It sounds good,” I said, in an effort to contribute to the discussion.
	“It is! This one has the most glorious phrases ever conceived. It has replaced my previous favorite of his, ‘Specialization is for insects’, as my mantra.”
	I didn’t ask what a mantra was. I think this is how ignorant people stay ignorant. They refuse to let their guards down and admit they don’t know something, when they could instead cop to it and then actually learn.
	“What is it?”
	“TANSTAAFL.”
	“Sounds like some Lebanese food,” Til said.
	“Ha! It stands for ‘There Ain’t No Such Thing As A Free Lunch’.”
	“Oh, that is a nice one, Maxxy. Words to live by, indeed. It’s kind of like ‘There’s always free cheese in a mousetrap’.”
	“I never heard that one! I wonder if that is the etymology of the phrase?”
	“Probably so,” Tilly told her. “I think it’s a pretty old one.”
	“It would be an interesting thing to study,” Maxxy said, and resumed her chicken leg.
	“Clarence, do you know anything about the history of Watts?” Aunt Til asked me.
	“I ain’t never heard of Watts. Unless you mean electricity.”
	“Heh. No. The city of Watts is right by where we live, Lynwood. But it kind of relates to what Maxxy and I were talking about. In the 40s, Watts was a thriving black part of L.A. They had black-owned stores, black doctors, black law offices.”
	“That sounds real cool.”
	“It was. A little too cool for some, apparently. Because by the 60s, Watts was more or less destroyed by riots. Now it’s a wasteland of a sort. Comparatively speaking. And there are some of us here, mostly people older than myself, that feel this was by design.”
	“On purpose?”
	“Right. Watts took that ‘separate but equal’ concept and ran with it. People say it was amazing. More of a mecca than even Harlem at its heights. It makes me sad to think of it, seeing where the world is at now. Really, it makes me angry.”
	“I bet.”
	“Now, as it relates to what Maxxy was saying, in part, ‘free’ things are what got us here. Because there used to be all married couples raising children back then. Now women are rewarded for kicking the men out. It’s a trap, but they’ll never see that.”
	She sighed.
	It seemed funny coming from her, a woman raising a child on her own. And Aunt Til didn’t seem to have a job herself. I know regular people, at least the ones I knew, didn’t buy carloads of groceries unless it was with food stamps.
	“Those who forget history are doomed to repeat it,” Til said. “Those who remember, though, have to sit idly by and watch it repeat itself, helpless to change anything. We were once dependent on others in this country, and now we’re back full circle. It’s a mess.”
	This was all a pretty heavy topic for a family dinner. It was turning into a roundtable discussion with soul food.
	“Knowledge is power,” Maxxy said.
	“It is,” Til agreed. “But it is of far more benefit to individuals than groups. I only see bad things ahead for a lot of people.”
	It was good foresight on her part. Because we all know now, things did get a lot worse, and not just in Los Angeles. Changing the subject, and maybe sensing that she was getting a little heavy, Aunt Til said, “What do we think about taking Clarence to church tomorrow?”
	“Nooo, mama! I hate it so much!”
	“He could meet some people his own age. Ones who wear belts and shoes, instead of sagging chinos and flip-flops.”
	“Not this week, okay? Please? I have to break him in before you ruin him.”
	Tilly laughed. “I guess. Plus, we really should get him something nice to wear. There will be girls there…”
	That got my attention, and I think she knew that.
	“Thank you!” Maxxy said. “I hate church. And I hate church people.”
	“That’s not very Christian of you, Maxine.”
	“That’s because I’m not a Christian…”
	“Touché.”
	“Clarence, do you think that would be something you’d be interested in?”
	“I’m not a big fan of church, for real. But I would go.”
	“Great! We’ll go shopping this week, then.”
	“Woo,” Maxxy said, less than enthused.
	We finished eating, and thankfully the conversation steered away from heady discussions about race and politics. Maxine filled her mother in on the lives of her friends, and I mostly just ate. After dinner, though, Aunt Til came into Maxxy’s room, where I was laying on the bed, stuffed. She shut the door behind her.
	“I thought I owed you a little explanation of where I’m coming from,” she told me. I sat up, and she settled in on the bed with me. “I feel like I may be viewed as a hypocrite, otherwise.”
	“Why would I think that?”
	“Two reasons. For one, despite what I was saying about cheese and lunches, I do take state money. Every dollar I can get.”
	“I don’t see anything wrong with that.”
	“No, and most people don’t. But from an ethical standpoint, I don’t agree with it. At the same time, we all do what we have to. The other thing is, I don’t want you to think I’m some sort of black militant. I don’t have a lot in common with those folks, as such. I mean, I support what they do, largely. But some of it is misguided, and they go about things in the wrong way. They’re just in a bigger trap and don’t know it.”
	“We don’t really have that back home,” I told her.
	“You likely will. But what I’m getting at, really, is that Maxxy’s father was white.”
	“For real?”
	“Yes. And she knows. In fact, she has a few memories of him, and I’m so glad for that. But your mom and aunt, or anyone in the family, doesn’t. I’d appreciate it if we kept that to ourselves.”
	“That’s your business.”
	“I’m glad you see it that way. I’m afraid they just wouldn’t understand. I know they wouldn’t, actually.”
	“What was he like?”
	“He was a great man, I can tell you that much. But married, for one thing. I didn’t care. We were very much in love. He was an engineer for Boeing-Lockheed, in fact. Brilliant. Maxine takes after him as least as much as she does me. And we were going to get married, although that was, and still kind of is, a great taboo to the world at large.”
	“What happened?”
	“A car crash basically destroyed all my dreams. When I became pregnant, he had started making arrangements to get divorced. We were going to get a place far from here. Alabama, maybe. NASA has some offices there.”
	“Fuck,” I said, and then became conscious of it. Auntie Til paid that no mind at all.
	“Part of me wants to believe it was just an accident, and maybe it was. But somewhere in me, there remains a suspicion that there was more to it. Because the defense industry is a monster. And if you shake the tree high enough, you’ll find the CIA behind it. It could have been related to that. Or it could have been racial. Or, like I said, it was probably just a thing that happened, with no real reason behind it.”
	“I’m sorry, Aunt Til…”
	“I had to move on. But I have never met a man to replace him. Lord knows I looked. Your mom and her sister think I like women, I’m sure. I never told them differently.”
	This was all a bit more of an adult conversation than I had ever been involved in.
	“What he did do, though, was set up a trust for Maxxy, even before she was born. He put a decent chunk of money into stocks for us. I get dividend checks. Well, she does. Which means my income is officially zero. So, I get my little government cheese, and I get to care for Maxine full time. Which is what he would have wanted.”
	“That’s real cool. I mean, not cool that he died, but… sweet.” 
	“Yes. It is, and he was. Anyway, I don’t mean to make things awkward. I just wanted you to know where your crazy Aunt Tilly was coming from.”
	I laughed, and the moment passed, ending on a lighter note.
	“Goodnight, Clarence.”
	“’Night, Til,” I said, using just her name, really for the first time. 
	She treated me like a grown man, and for the first time, I felt I was actually becoming one.

Chapter 12 – Bullet Points

	Sunday morning, was, like every day in L.A., a different day entirely. I awoke to my bedroom door being kicked in, and a gun in my face. 
	“Break yo’ self, fool!” 
It’s a good thing my own piece was buried in my closet. In later years, it would have been on the nightstand with one in the chamber. It was Maxxy, and the plastic gun was Han Solo’s. Shit looked real as hell, though. Like a tactical weapon of today, scope and shit.
	“Max, what the he-“
	“Shut the fuck up and get down on the goddamn ground!”
	“Maxxy!” Aunt Til yelled. “You said not until nine! It’s… eight forty-three!” Then she went back to sleep, I guess.
	“Education is no motherfucking joke!” To emphasize her point, she clocked me in the side of my forehead with her pistol. “Put your goddamn hands where I can motherfucking see them!” 
	Look. I could have gotten mad. I probably should have. I don’t know that anyone has ever put Maxine Jackson fully in check. It occurs to me now that maybe someone should have. I also think Aunt Til had some good ideas about childrearing, unconventional though they were. It’s hard to rectify the two thoughts. Maxxy was in many ways far more equipped for the real world than I was.
	Instead, I put my hands up. You know how little kids are, and she was still a little kid. I played along.
	“That’s real good, Daquan. Now don’t move, and maybe I won’t shoot you. Take your ass in the kitchen. We need coffee in here!” she added in a shout directed at her mother.
	“Goddamnit!” TIl said. But she came out in her robe and slippers anyway and started brewing a pot.
	“Sit the fuck down at the table and keep your hands where I can see them.”
	She went into her mom’s room and came out with two books, college algebra, the kind of hardback book that probably costs hundreds of dollars today, and what looked like some eight-grade math shit. She slammed them on the table, and then slid the kid one to me.
	She put hers in front of her chair, sat, and put the toy gun to the side. “Okay, good,” she said in a new, even voice that was an uncanny imitation of a real teacher, “Let’s begin, shall we?”
	“That wasn’t even that funny, Maxxy,” Til told her. Then they both started laughing. I was still a little hot, myself, and not the least of which was because of her treating me a like kid when it comes to math.
	“I only get one day of school a week,” she informed me. “I have to make the most of it.”
	“One day a week? What do you call what you do every other day?”
	“That’s just her playing. Unschooling. Whatever,” Aunt Til said.
	“Why one day a week, though?” 
	“That’s all she requires. How much more high-end math does she need to absorb at this age? It’s really just family time, but focused.”
	I couldn’t really argue with that. Maxxy learned more in a week undirected than we did in school in a month. I still thought of school in terms of sitting at desks for eight hours a day.
	“Plenty,” Max said. “Fourier transforms. Matrix theory…”
	“Which one?” Aunt Til asked her.
	“Both. Algebraic topology. I don’t even know calculus yet! I don’t know machine language. I’m falling behind!”
	“You have all week for that, if you want. It gives me a headache. Statistics was enough for me.”
	“Scrub-ass statistics. Damned lies and statistics!” Maxxy yelled, shaking her fist in the air.
	“Are you done?” Til asked her.
	“Fine. So, Clarence, I can’t help but notice you mad-dogging me over there.” Which was a wild exaggeration, but shows how perceptive she was. “Is there anything you want to discuss?”
	“I just think, terrifying wake-up call aside, this book is a year or so behind me, in school.”
	“I don’t expect you to start at the front. Work the last five pages, and we’ll get a new one. Mama still has all my old stuff.” 
	Aunt Til took that moment to put some notebooks and pencils on the table, and for a minute I thought they were working together on me, for some odd reason. But they weren’t. Just like I had done, she let Maxxy go and do what she was going to do, curious to see the results. Later on, she explained her philosophy in that regard a bit more. “If you had busted her in the mouth, I wouldn’t have have gotten mad at you. I’d just put some ice on her and tell her that’s what she gets for acting crazy. Anticipating the consequences of our own actions is paramount for survival.”
	I never heard people just casually talk about life in terms like that before. Survival seemed a given, even in Fifth Ward, for most people. But she was talking about a manner of thriving. In essence, a hot stove is the best way for a child to learn about avoiding flames. Those are the lessons that we take to the easiest, and stay with us the longest. 
	I put my head down and worked the last five pages of problems. Damned if it wasn’t harder than I thought. Maxine read, and seemed determined to ignore me until I was done. When I finally put my pencil down, she came and leaned over me, ran through the pages, and marked five wrong. This took her about a single minute.
	“Honestly, you passed. But just barely. It took longer than it should have, and you really got more of a B, were I grading this. And I am. I’d like to work through this book with you, and really make sure you have a good handle on all of it. It’s pre-algebra. The next level really is the one I’m working through.”
	She sounded more like a career counselor or some shit than a kid who still played with dolls. What could I tell her, anyway?
	“Okay.”
	“Good!” She pulled her chair next to me, and I started on chapter one while she worked on stuff that looked like a foreign language compared to what I was doing. A few times, she explained a concept more fully to me, gave some theory not in the text, or showed me a faster way of doing something.
	“Aunt Til,” I said. “Don’t you teach Maxxy?”
	“Teach her what? Not math, for sure. She tries to teach me. I don’t want to know any more. I can honestly say that differential equations will not factor heavily into the remainder of my life.”
	“Ten o’clock,” Maxine said. “Time for English”
	“What are we doing this week, Max?” Til asked her.
	She went to the bookshelf in her mother’s room and came back reading.
	“I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness, starving hysterical naked,
dragging themselves through the negro streets at dawn looking for an angry fix, angelheaded hipsters burning for the ancient heavenly connection to the starry dynamo in the machinery of night, who poverty and tatters and hollow-eyed and high sat up smoking in the supernatural darkness of cold-water flats floating across the tops of cities contemplating jazz, who bared their brains to Heaven under the El and saw Mohammedan angels staggering on tenement roofs illuminated…”
	She went on like this at length for some minutes, and then passed the book to Til, who picked up where she left off, never missing a beat.
	“…who lounged hungry and lonesome through Houston seeking jazz or sex or soup, and followed the brilliant Spaniard to converse about America and Eternity, a hopeless task, and so took ship to Africa, who disappeared into the volcanoes of Mexico leaving behind nothing but the shadow of dungarees and the lava and ash of poetry scattered in fireplace Chicago, who reappeared on the West Coast investigating the FBI in beards and shorts with big pacifist eyes sexy in their dark skin passing out incomprehensible leaflets…”
	Not only was the wildest shit I had ever heard in my life, the part Til started with was weirdly appropriate in its mention of Houston and then the west coast. She did another long part, and when she put the book down in front of me, she put her finger where she had left off, and I did my best to pick it up there with the same flair that they had delivered their lines with.
	“…Pilgrim State’s Rockland’s and Greystone’s foetid halls, bickering with the echoes of the soul, rocking and rolling in the midnight solitude-bench dolmen-realms of love, dream of life a nightmare, bodies turned to stone as heavy as the moon, with mother finally fucking, and the last fantastic book flung out of the tenement window, and the last door closed at 4 a.m. and the last telephone slammed at the wall in reply and the last furnished room emptied down to the last piece of mental furniture, a yellow paper rose twisted on a wire hanger in the closet, and even that imaginary, nothing but a hopeful little bit of hallucination— ah, Carl, while you are not safe I am not safe, and now you’re really in the total animal soup of time—…”
	They had me read almost until the end, but for the last stanza, Maxxy took over for me. I didn’t know it beforehand, but she did so because the end was really difficult. It had a lot of loud lamentations about Moloch, which she explained to me about later. The performance she put into it at that point drove it home almost as well without me having a full understanding of what she was saying. I felt that shit. 
	By the end, I had learned everything, and nothing. If you had asked me what it was about, what the themes were, I couldn’t have told you. All I knew is that I had experienced it, and that experience left me slightly more fulfilled than before we had started. At the same time, I felt sadder. That is some heavy shit, able to make you feel things like that.
	“This has been a reading of Howl by Alan Ginsberg,” Maxxy said, bowing slightly.
	“Well done!” Til told her. “That was fun. The best reading yet, I think.”
	“You’ve done it before?” I asked them.
	“This is the fourth time…” Aunt Tilly said.
	“Still the best poem since The Odyssey,” Maxxy said.
	“It’s her favorite. Also, that’s entirely subjective, Maxine. But, yes, it’s a pretty great one, as poems go.”
	“Kahlil Gabran is bullshit,” Maxxy said.
	“He’s not that bad,” her mother opined.
	“A book you put on the back of your toilet, next to your seashell-shaped soaps, nestled smugly beneath an unread copy of ‘Jonathan Livingston Seagull’.”
	“That’s…pretty on the nose, actually.”
	“’The moving finger writes, and having writ, moves on.’ That’s the real shit.”
	“Agreed. How is Canterbury Tales? Still hate it?”
	“No. I got used to the fart jokes, the wiener jokes, and everything else, written in such an archaic language that the book creaks when I open it, and have to spend five minutes to decode a quatrain.”
	“Good. It sounds like you’re understanding it pretty well, then.”
	“James Joyce, now that guy could write a fart joke,” Maxxy added.
	“I don’t think that counts, if I’m thinking of what you’re thinking of. Chaucer isn’t that different from Shakespeare, in a number of ways. Look at how the style shifts from character to character.”
	“Mama, he’s no Shakespeare. Let’s just agree to disagree, here.”
	“How about finish that one, and you can pick twice in a row?”
	“Fine.”
	“No Allen Ginsberg.”
	“Damn it. Okay.” Maxxy let her features collapse for a moment to indicate her displeasure, and then said, “Welp, that’s school. See you guys next week!” She put the books away, mine included, and that was it. A little more than two hours on a Sunday was her official school time.
	Meanwhile, Aunt Til had made pancakes to go with the coffee everyone was drinking. I say everyone because Maxxy had a cup, too, and had refilled it twice. Only during school, apparently. She really didn’t need any energy boost anyway.
	Even Aunt Til pancakes weren’t just pancakes, as good as they can be. She had put cooked bacon slices in the batter, and two sunny-side-up eggs on top. I could eat that every day of my life. But it was never better than when Til did it. 
	When we were finishing up, Maxxy said, “Mama, did you get my colors and stuff like I asked you to?”
	“Oh. Yes. They’re in the trunk. I forgot. There’s two bags of dollar store stuff in there. Clarence, will you go get them with her?”
	She handed me her keys, and Maxxy ran out ahead of me. “They better not be melted!”
	I popped the trunk, and Maxine grabbed her shiny new box of 64 Crayolas. She headed back inside as I tried to carry both bags and close the trunk. But I’m glad she had. Because before I had quite reached the door, the bullets had started flyin’.	

Chapter 13 – Honeybear

	We got caught slippin’. I wasn’t in the habit of being hyper-aware of traffic, and Maxxy had no real reason to fear anything, either. I just heard someone yell, “Punk motherfucker!” and then three shots. Maxine screamed, and the car started accelerating away.
	I pushed in the front door, still holding the bags, somehow, and I heard breaking glass, and three more shots, louder, in rapid succession, from Aunt TIl’s room. I dropped what I was holding and ran in.
	Aunt Till was standing there with an AK, muzzle still sticking out the window.
	“Is everyone okay?” she said. Like she had to stop short while driving or something.
	Maxxy ran in with a non-toy pistol. And not the one I had jacked. A different pistol.
	“Motherfuckers!” she yelled.
	“Clarence, can I talk to Maxxy a minute?”
	I closed her door behind me and went into Maxxy’s room. I was shook.
	A few minutes later, they emerged. Maxxy was smiling. There were no guns. Like it never happened.
	We picked up the groceries, and she said, “Oh, no! Honeybear!”
	There was a hole through the bag, and the little plastic container of Sue-Bee honey.
	“I had to tell mama about the trip to the bodega,” she whispered to me, conspiratorially. “It’s no big deal. You may hear about it.”
	Aunt Til was already cutting out a piece of cardboard to cover the window she had broken. 
	“We can’t get a glass repairman out on a Sunday, I’m not even going to try.”
	She never did say a word about, well, anything, really. I guess not much needed to be said. I didn’t look at her the same after that. And the way Maxine brandished her weapon, I knew she would use it, given a reason. She carried it like she knew what she was doing. Which shouldn’t surprise me. When she tackled a subject, she mastered it. It was a real crazy day, but their immediate reaction went a long way toward normalizing it. Almost anyone else would have been flipping out.
	I was the only one that tried to talk about it.
	“Shouldn’t we call the police?”
	Aunt Til looked at me. “We don’t do that, here.”
	She transferred the honey she could save into some Tupperware after she patched the window, and set about washing the things that were in the bag. Meanwhile, my shock was turning into anger. All I could think was that I had that gun, and I knew what that dude looked like. I had to let it go, at least for the moment.
	At almost six, Maxxy turned on the TV and sat on the couch. “Mama, Muppet show!”
	“In a minute, baby. Clarence, come see.”
	I followed her out the back door, into the little fenced-in yard that I didn’t really know existed until then. I became aware of my lack of situational awareness. To my utter amazement, Aunt TIl pulled out a joint and a lighter, and sparked it up.
	“Here,” she said through the breath she held, and handed it to me. “Mostly I don’t, but when I do, it’s before the muppets are on. And Disney. Plus, today isn’t the average Sunday.”
	I nodded and passed it back. After a few more hits, she said, “I’m good, baby. Finish it if you want, and then come watch TV with us. We could all use a laugh.”
	After she went inside, I put it out, then stashed the rest in my room. I was learning more all the time about ole Aunt Til. The muppets were funny. I couldn’t bring myself to laugh too much, but I tried. The Disney was far less so, being one of those weird Witch Mountain movies. 
	We went to bed after that, and the next few days were a return to normalcy.
	The next day, Aunt till brought me out front. I was a little nervous, but she had no fear of anything, apparently. 
	“Take this tire off for me,” she said, unlocking the trunk and pointing at the front passenger side one. Then she went back inside.
	Now, this was some shit I should know how to do, but didn’t, fully. It took me a while. Once I figured out where the jack went and got the tire lifted, I tried to break the lugs loose, and the tire just spun. So, I had to drop it back down again, loosen them, and then raise it back up. But I got it done, and it was in a fairly reasonable amount of time. But since I didn’t know what else she wanted me to do, I went in and told her it was off.
	She followed me back outside. “Now put it back on again, please.”
	“Huh?”
	“You are going to meet your new employers tomorrow. They said as long as you can change a tire, they can use you.”
	“Heh. Well, damn. Thanks, then.”
	Aunt Til had applied the same sort of teaching method she used on Maxine to me, and it had worked. I put the wheel back on, dropped it again, tightened the lugs, and then put everything back in the trunk, suddenly a seasoned pro.
	“Nice work,” she told me. “I’m sure you’ll do fine. They’ll teach you whatever you need to know. Long sleeve shirt and pants. A half day of orientation tomorrow, noon to five.” 
	Once again, I found myself in an apprenticeship program for a trade. I didn’t know then that all the things I learned in both would eventually apply to the same job, but it did work out nice like that.	
	We went back inside, and I could finally try and relax. I didn’t sleep very well the night of the shooting, I’ll say that. 
	Man, I took that Iceberg Slim book, finally, and went out back. Neither Aunt Til or Maxxy came and bothered me. I stretched out on one of them long wooden chairs with the deep cushions, and smoked that joint down to the nub reading that thing. It opened with some of the bleakest quotes you could imagine, immediately destroying your notion of what pimping is. Then it breaks into the coolest, grittiest, jive storyline. I mean foul, from the get-go. Hard. Harder than L.A. and Houston put together. 
	This spoke to me in a way Langston Hughes or Alan Ginsberg never could. Of course, that was pretty much the sum total of poets I knew of. Edgar Allan Poe and shit. Who was cool. As artform, it was an epic book. What it showed about The Life was that it was fun to read about, but nothing I could tolerate. Every bit of it rubbed wrong against my being. I wanted the pussy and the money, that’s it.
	After that, though, it changed gears wildly again. Pages in, and I had already been whipsawed twice by this book. Thinking about it, the California indo probably added to my awe. But the language was raw and rich, and the pages were packed with crazy stories, all told rapid fire and poetic. It also involved prison and savagery. Even those parts were unfathomably cool. I think I read half the book that day. 
	When I went to bed that night, I laughed at myself. None of that pimp shit matters to me. I’m a welder. And maybe a mechanic, too. But it was still fun to read about. And I sure did want some pussy.
	Ain’t no pussy in an auto mechanic shop. The only women I got to see were a few ladies dropping their cars off, and that was at a distance. Plus, I ended up so oily, I wouldn’t want any to see me anyway, after a while. But the lack of distractions did allow me to focus well on the work. The owner cats were cool, two black dudes, these were the friends of Aunt Til. Then I met their mechanic, who they called Cooter. It was only years later that I realized it was after a character on a TV show.
	He was what you would call your southern California redneck. They definitely exist. But he was alright, and knew his shit. He also knew enough to teach me how to do the dirtiest parts of his job. During my ‘orientation’, I changed three tires, learned how to change oil, and swept the hell out of the shop. By the time Aunt Til came back, I was exhausted. Exhausted, but happy.
	After I had washed up and ate, there was a knock at the door. When I opened it, the cat who I had knocked out, and had then tried to shoot me, was standing there. On crutches. One eye was swole up big, with a bandage over it. His lips were busted, nose broken. He had a brace on his knee.
	“I’m sorry, man,” was all he said, never making eye contact, and then limped away again, having fulfilled whatever obligation someone had assigned him. Maxxy was sitting on the couch, and I saw her smiling a tiny bit, but neither she nor Aunt Til commented on the situation.
	All I knew, really, is that we never had any trouble like that again.	

Chapter 14 – Just A Good Ole’ Boy
	
	So, every morning, I would get up early with Aunt TIl, we’d have coffee and breakfast, and she would drop me off at work with a little lunch she had packed for me. It didn’t take too many days of that before I realized I loved the routine. It was a preview of what domestic bliss could be like, and I enjoyed it thoroughly.
	The way it worked on the job was that there were two bays. One had a space underneath where the cars went, with a ladder, and that was mostly my side. All the basic stuff was done there, the things I readily knew how to do. I got pretty fast at most of it, too. I was already pretty good with tools from my time doing maintenance, and I had plenty of practice during any given day.
	I also learned a bit about customer service, too. The owners made sure every vehicle that came through got their seventeen-point treatment. It didn’t matter if it was a vehicle inspection (I even did that, but Cooter had to sign the actual sticker), the windows were cleaned, fluids topped off, floorboards vacuumed. I even had to empty the ashtrays. It was a physical checklist, and the first few times, Coot doublechecked me on every item.
	Other than lunchtime, which was different for us mechanics than it was for customers, the cars in my bay were sporadic. During lunch, though, we both serviced the cars that lined up outside. The  rush of people trying to remove an item from their own personal checklists went on for about two hours. We worked as hard during those two as the rest of the day put together.
	When we weren’t swamped, though, and my side was empty, I got to assist Cooter with the more involved repairs. To me, he seemed like something of a savant. Every job was different. Even doing the same thing on two different cars wasn’t the same process. We changed starters and distributors. I learned how to gap spark plugs (and learned how damn car engines worked in the first place). Most of all, I think, I learned how to think logically and methodically about a problem. 
	I found out later that one of the reasons Maxxy was so adept at things, her natural intelligence aside, is that she had picked up a logical mindset as a result of teaching herself computer programming. In mechanic work, like in programming, there was a logical order to things. A flow. If you didn’t follow the steps in order, things either got harder, or didn’t work at all.
	Sometimes a bolt head would snap off or something. It was pretty much unavoidable. Cooter never got mad at it, or cursed, anything like that. He’d just have me get his little extraction toolkit, and he’d do whatever it took to get the broken piece out. Sometimes this took longer to do than the rest of the repair combined. If the more high-strung of the two owners ever came out and tried to get him to hurry up on something that had been taking a while, he would just stand there and listen, shutting down what he was doing. No matter what they told him, he would say, “It’ll be finished when I finish,” and then wait for them to leave again before he went back to it. I don’t know why they ever bothered trying to rush him, because all they ever did was slow him down.
	At the end of the first week at quitting time, Aunt Til picked me up with Maxxy and a fresh change of clothes for me. The owners had shook my hand, and given me a hundred-dollar bill for the week. Cash money. 
	We went and got ice cream again, and although I tried to pay, Aunt Til wouldn’t let me. “Save it,” she said. “We’re going clothes shopping next.”
	She took us to some little boutique place that was pretty far from home. All the stuff was really nice, though, and they left me to my own devices as they engaged in a mother-daughter spree of trying on clothes, critiquing each other’s choices, and trying to decide on what complimentary outfits to get.
	Meanwhile, I struggled with the entire concept of fashion. In the time they had taken to check out probably five outfits each and pick something out, I had assembled a single ensemble. When I went and tried it on and then walked out in it, Maxxy laughed and her mom shushed her.
	“Let’s use those pants, and try it this way,” Aunt Til suggested. She got me an undershirt, vest, and suit jacket that more fully went with them. Instead of a belt, she gave me suspenders. I have to admit, when I came out the second time, I looked pretty sharp. I even felt better wearing it. She topped it all off with a bow tie. I felt like a huge square between that and the suspenders. The dress clothes were bad enough, to me. Her judgment was sound, though. I had no idea just how sound until later.
	Even Maxxy gave me the thumbs up. When Aunt Til added a hat, handkerchief, and glasses (that were only for show and didn’t actually do anything), I felt like I was undercover. This wasn’t Clarence at that point, but some other cat entirely. I looked like a very upscale, church-going nerd. But a stylish one. That shit was thirty-eight dollars. This time, Aunt Til made no motion to pay, and she was silently teaching me another life lesson, there. Almost half of my money was gone, the same day I had gotten it. But I looked good, and more importantly, I felt good. And different.
	We hung our new clothes from the little hanger thing in the backseat, and piled in. I rode up front with Til, and she said, “Clarence, how do you feel about hibachi?”
	“What’s that?”
	“Oh, you are in for a treat,” she told me.
	“Where dinner is the show!” Maxxy yelled from the backseat.
	We pulled into a Benihana somewhere on the way back. I really had no idea what that place was like, at that point. It was packed, there were people with reservations, waiting. But at the sight of Aunt TIl, we were brought to a big stovetop table that was opened up just for us. I don’t think Til had reservations, either. They knew who she was, and was treated differently than the other patrons. Whatever was going on there, it was real cool. I thought maybe she was some kind of regular. And didn’t think a whole lot about it, anyway.
	It was hard to think about anything other than your surroundings, in there. Everywhere you looked, people were throwing food, chefs were making giant flames, or big walls of steam. Knives and hatchets were chopping food like a kung fu movie. Before we even had ordered something to drink, I was captivated by all the activity. My eyes didn’t even stay in one place for too long before something new got my attention, often punctuated with a cheer from a table of patrons.
	It got even better when a guy rolled a little cart in, loaded with food. He didn’t talk to us, ask what we wanted, anything. He just went to work cooking. But the way they cooked wasn’t just cooking. It was part juggling, part daredevil, and pure showmanship. Dude made, like, a train out of rice. But it didn’t just have steam coming out of it, it moved on the stovetop. A lot of what he did was so fast, you couldn’t even follow what he was doing. 
	What he was also really doing was keeping our attention as the food was being cooked, so that we hardly noticed that part. Before I knew it, he had dumped a big pile of rice on there, warmed it, and put it on our plates along with a gang of shrimp. It was only then that I realized how hungry I was.
	In a very Maxxy-like way, she turned the tables on the cook. She picked up a shrimp, and made a motion with it to him. He opened his mouth, she tossed it at him, and he caught it! We weren’t the only table cheering that move, even. He refried noodles, and cooked beef medallions, scallops, all kinds of stuff. We just kept eating, watching, and laughing until we couldn’t do it anymore. 
	Then he boxed up the rest, gave a little bow…and left. It was a whole different level of cool that guy operated on. Maxxy yelled out something that I assumed was Japanese, but I later learned was Korean. Hearing her, he turned and smiled, and blew her a kiss. She swooned.
	“Ready, kids?” Aunt Til asked. Then we just got our boxes and walked out. I figured she had paid with a credit card or something. Let me just say right here and now, whatever it was, it wasn’t no dine and dash shit. Don’t get it twisted.
	We laughed and cut up all the way home. It might have been the single happiest moment in my young life. 
	“I love you guys,” I said, overcome with emotion, and unable to contain myself.
	“We love you, Clarence,” Aunt TIl said. That did my heart so much good.
	“Yeah,” Maxxy said. “You big scungilli-head.”
	We actually went home and watched Johnny Carson with Maxxy. Aunt Til was drinking a beer, and I went to the fridge and popped the top on one myself. She didn’t even appear to notice. Goddamnit, Aunt Til was so cool. I’m crying right now and shit. This is embarrassing. I miss her so bad. 	

Chapter 15 – Hue-Colored Glasses

	Even though I was dog-tired some days after work that week, I had read. Sometimes only a page or two, some nights a full chapter. It was a combination of me loving the Iceberg Slim book, and Maxine’s influence. Other than the occasional TV show or the odd, random instances of her playing with actual toys, it was what she did. Aunt Til read far more than anyone else I had known up to that point, too, but I think in a sense, I was trying to keep up with Maxxy. She was family, and I loved her, but at the same time, it works on you, having someone half your age who is twice as smart and educated as you are.
	By Saturday afternoon, I had finished reading the pimp book, though. Aunt Til was out doing Aunt Til shit, and I went back to The Art of War. It had a whole new context, given the events that had transpired, and what I had absorbed about The Life. The more I read it, the more I related it to what I had just finished reading. There were a lot of parallels with the two, but a gulf of worlds existed between them, at the same time.
	It occurred to me to ask Maxxy about the gun she had ran up into her mother’s room with, since we had the house to ourselves.
	“What gun?” she said, not for the first time.
	“C’mon, Maxxy.”
	“Snitches get stitches, cousin,” she told me. And it wasn’t little girl Maxxy saying it. She was serious. I let it rest.
	Aunt Til came home not too long after that, looking a combination of tired and elated. Years later, I came to understand that it’s what a woman looks like after a particularly rewarding sexual encounter. But you never think of your family members as people who do that sort of thing. 
	“I’m sorry, kids. I ran late.” She offered up a bag of McDonald’s burgers and fries in compensation for a lack of dinner, and that suited Maxxy and I just fine.
	At ten-thirty, Aunt Til put the TV on NBC, and we watched a new show. It was the debut of Saturday Night Live. Til laughed at everything far more than we did, and it was good to see her so happy. But when it was over, she uncharacteristically told us it was bedtime.
	“Church in the morning, remember?” she told a protesting Maxine.
	“How could I forget?” she said.
	The next morning, I awoke to the smell of coffee to find the two of them already dressed. Til looked amazing in her Sunday best, and Maxine the child equivalent. I sipped a little coffee, something that was now becoming a habit, and then got dressed myself.
	I hadn’t asked anything about where we were actually going, but it was a long drive, and we ended up in the same area we had dropped Maxxy’s friend off, eventually pulling into a huge lot outside of a place that looked part cathedral and part skyscraper. Up to that point, if you said church, I would have thought of some non-descript V.F.W. hall sort of place, or maybe some tiny wooden building in the country.
	This was the opposite of that in every way. The lot was full of Mercedes and shit like that, too. It looked like my dream of a car dealership. Til’s humble vehicle was way out of place. When we got out, Maxxy said, “Bye!” and tried to take off ahead of us.
	“Maxine! Get back here!” Til yelled at her, and she stopped and waited for us. “We’re a family,” she reminded her, “and we’re coming here as a family.”
	“Fine.”
	But when we got closer to the front doors, we were greeted with a chorus of squeals as she and her friends spotted each other. This time, Maxxy ran off, and Aunt Til let her go. Instead, she and I went inside.
	“They have some class thing for kids, here,” she told me. “The only way Maxine could sit still for adult services would be if I let her bring a book.”
	Inside, it was festive. My only experiences with churches were funerals, and the occasional holiday where my mom took me for some reason that I had never understood. Here, though, it was like Easter Sunday, except nowhere near as solemn. People milled about, talking and laughing, and it felt far less formal than I had expected. Everyone looked amazing, dressed to the nines. You could almost smell the money, there. At the same time, everyone was very down-to-earth. 
	There were hot-ass women as far as the eye could see. 
	The church, Aunt Til had told me later, was what was called Unitarian. She explained a little to me about it, and it really was a little cooler than your regular sort of church. They didn’t just talk some game about universal values or whatever, they practiced it. It was also much more youth-oriented.
	The upshot of all this is, I had died and gone to heaven. Far from being a white church, or a black church, as I was accustomed to, this was the International House of Pancakes of churches. It was probably largely white, by the numbers, but there were Black girls, Asian girls, Latinas. All looking more beautiful than I could have imagined. Suddenly, I had no game whatsoever. I found that all I could do was soak it in and dream.
	After a few minutes during which Aunt Til was greeted by some people she knew, we all took seats and listened to the sermon, sang a few songs, and split out again after forty-five minutes. It was a far cry from my Easter and Christmas experiences, which had seemed to drag on forever as a kid. The minister’s talk was a bit slicker and, I don’t know, progressive, but to me, it was just the same old bullshit repackaged for a different market.
	As a social event, though, it had enormous value. Aunt Til talked to a few more folks she recognized, or had recognized her, and I just stood by politely and looked around in wonder. It was like starving, and looking at food behind glass that you couldn’t actually get to.
	Eventually, we left the main building, and went to the little side ones where Maxxy and her friends had spent their time. Sarah was there, which shook me the tiniest bit. She was already hard to take, but encountering her in that environment made things even more uncomfortable. Lucky for me, Maxxy had apparently given her a talking to, and she didn’t act the same way she had before.
	“Noooo! Mama, I don’t want to go yet!” Maxxy protested.
	“Before, you didn’t want to come,” her mother said. “Besides, we’re going to Waffle House…”
	Even that wasn’t enough to convince Maxine. It was the first time that I realized that she read and did the things she did, in part, because she didn’t have anything else to do. 
	“Can we just wait until Sarah leaves? Pleeeeese?”
	Til sighed. “Okay.”
	“Yay!”
	So, we sat in some plastic chairs and waited a few minutes, while Maxxy, Sarah, and a few others chattered on and laughed. Eventually, Sarah’s parents walked in, and Til stood up, so I followed suit. She and the woman gave each other a kind of awkward hug, and I shook the man’s hand as she introduced us.
	“Sarah’s father owns the Benihana we ate at the other night,” she told me. And another number in a combination lock clicked into place. 
	They spoke for a little while, but no one motioned to go. “We’re waiting on Hue,” the mother said. “She is signing up for a mission trip in the fall.”
	“Oh, that’s great!” Til said. “Where to?”
	“Egypt, of all places.”
	“Interesting!”
	Then Hue walked in. My breathing stopped. Maybe my heart did, too, I don’t know. All I know is that she was a vision. Far more lovely than even her mother, who was beautiful in her own right, this girl literally took my breath away. And she walked right up to me.
	“You must be Clarence,” she said.
	“What? I mean, yes, hi.” I stuck out my hand, and she shook it, which was somehow awkward as hell, but also the right thing to do. I remember how her hand felt in mine, to this day. 
	“Sarah wouldn’t stop talking about you.”
	“Hahaha,” I said. “Yeah, she’s great.”
	Hue’s smile indicated that she knew a little more than she was copping to.
	“Okay, Maxxy,” Til said. “Let’s go. You promised.”
	Both families walked out together, and we said our goodbyes in the parking lot.
	In the car, Aunt Til said, “Well, that wasn’t too bad, was it?”
	“It was great!” Maxxy said. 
	“If I had listened to you, we never even would have come,” she chided her.
	We drove to breakfast on the way home, but my head was in the clouds. I think maybe you could say I developed a fetish that day. I didn’t know what that shit was back then, of course. But maybe call it a preference. A strong interest in women of the Asian variety. Most of all, in Hue herself.
	Going to church didn’t change Maxxy’s Sunday program, though, it only delayed it. When we got back home, we all changed, and then she broke out the books. I think she really enjoyed being in charge of things, and schooling me was a way to exercise that a little bit. This time, it was almost all math. We worked through pages for nearly two hours, and I started to gain a deeper understanding of it all than I had when I studied things in school. 
	Maxine didn’t let the occasion pass by without a little English, though. When we were done, she read me a shorter piece that wasn’t performance art like the last poem. It was Robert Frost’s “The Road Not Taken”. 
	I mean, it was cool. It didn’t speak to me in a way that the Ginsberg did, for sure. The imagery was northern and wintery, and that was an alien world compared to both the south and L.A. It was kinda… white people shit. The ending, though, made up for a lot. Even at my age, I knew what he was talking about. At least I thought I did. 
	“A very good reading, Maxine,” her mother said. Aunt Til never held back on praise when it was justified, and she also didn’t say something was good when it wasn’t. The crayon drawings on the refrigerator were curated. “So, did you know, one time, there was a gathering of English lit people, poets, and the like, and they were arguing about what Frost was saying in that poem. And Robert Frost himself stood up in the crowd, and told them, ‘That’s not what I meant at all.’”
	“Hahaha,” Maxxy said. “I like that. You know who I wish had written more poetry?”
	“Who?”
	“Bertrand Russell. That Frost story reminds me of when the lady told him ‘It’s turtles all the way down.’”
	I had absolutely no idea what they were talking about.	
“Ah. Well, the one I did read from him was beautiful, you’re right. He was more of a mathematician and philosopher, though. Did you know he was friends with T.S. Eliot?”
	“I did not,” Maxxy said. “Interesting.”
	“Eliot even wrote a poem about him. It’s called ‘Mr. Apollinax’.”
	“Oh my god, do you have it? Why have you withheld this information from me my entire life, mother?”
	“No, I don’t think I do. Put it on your list for when we go back to the library. I think you’ll like it. It’s catty. Apparently, Russell rented him and his wife a room, and was sleeping with her.”
	Aunt Til was the only person I ever knew who was so matter of fact about adult matters with kids. Of course, Maxine was the only sort of little kid I knew who was mature enough for that anyway. The statement required no further elaboration.
	“Poets…” Maxxy said. “Always the drama.”
	“That’s right,” Til said. “Stay in school, don’t do poetry.”
	Maxine laughed, and even I had to smile at that one.

Chapter 16 – Babygirl

	I didn’t go back to school, obviously. Aunt Til handled whatever needed to be done with the state so we wouldn’t be harassed, and I guess my mom did something in Houston to indicate I was in L.A. Whatever it was, it worked out pretty well.
	Work continued, I studied a bit so I didn’t fall behind, and I read. That was life in L.A. But we did keep going to church weekly, and it’s crazy, but that’s what I looked forward to most, much more so than payday. I think we all know why.
	The next time Maxxy went to the library, Hue was there…
	Man, that was a great day. When I saw her, I knew she was there to see me. I walked into the kid’s section, and she was curled up with her legs on her chair, book in lap, with glasses on. She looked down over them at me, and said, “Hello, Clarence…” 
	Sarah must have taken her seductions lessons from her big sister, because lord, at that moment, I would have given anything for her. But she wasn’t practicing, nor was she cattin’. It was something in-between. Whatever it was, I was the grateful beneficiary. It was different, with her. I mean, I wanted her. Bad. I can’t stress that enough. At the same time, it was enough to just spend time with her. 
	That’s what we did. We enjoyed each other’s company, and got to know each other. I never thought that when faced with someone I wanted with every ounce of my being (which had also never happened before) I would find myself entirely contented with just having them in the same room with me. The talking and smiling were just bonuses. Went Aunt Til finally came and got us, without saying so, I knew Hue would be back the next time, too. 
Plus, we had church. The next time we went, she sat next to me, and all of the nonsensical promises of heaven suddenly seemed real. I became an avid churchgoer, and probably for the least pious reason anyone could ever have. It wasn’t just Hue, but both families, minus the youngsters, every week after that. It made things a little more awkward than they would have been otherwise, but I was not complaining. Everyone involved seem to approve of our friendship, which is all it really was, so that helped.
I didn’t want to be just friends, though, and neither did Hue.
One unexpected side effect of my job was that I learned to drive. I would pull cars out of bays, I would park them, I would pull them in for me and Cooter to work on. It wasn’t long before it was a casual thing, for me. When I turned sixteen, Aunt Til took me to get a learner’s permit.
Other than trying to stay fresh looking for Hue, my expenses were nil. Consequently, I had slowly stacked almost three thousand dollars, at that point. I tried to give Til money, but she wouldn’t accept it. I did send my mom five hundred, though, once I had a nice little bank for myself. It was the only time she called me the whole time I was there. 
The other thing I did was buy Maxxy her printer. Plus, this thing she called a memory expansion that she really wanted. That felt good. It seems odd to me now that Til had never done it. I don’t think money was the issue. More than likely, knowing her, there was some bigger plan at work. Something to do with not spoiling her completely, or making her work toward a goal. 
Maxine was overjoyed, though. Her focus shifted away from fiction and poetry a bit, until half the books she got each month were on computer science topics. Kid tried to show me what machine language was, and it looked harder than Chinese arithmetic. Even with me studying algebra, what she was doing was beyond what I was capable of comprehending. 
Her little joke conversational program she had showed me early on grew into a thing that was capable of a fairly realistic dialogue between a human and a computer, as long as you played along with it. It was all smoke and mirrors, she told me. But it was impressive.
One night, Aunt Til sat me down at the table to talk.
“There are two things I’d like to see you do soon, Clarence,” she told me.
“Sure.” I didn’t know where she was going with this, but I was already willing to do anything Til asked of me.
“One, I’d like to see you get your G.E.D. It’s fine that you’re not going to school, and working. Plus, you’re still studying. I love that. But if you ever end up wanting to go to college, or maybe get a different sort of job, you’ll need one.”
“That sounds good.”
“I looked into it. You could probably do the whole thing on a Saturday afternoon. In and out. One and done.”
“Am I ready, though?”
“You are. You were probably ready when you got here. Standards, I’m sorry to say, are low. That’s not commentary on you, just the facts. Maxxy could get her G.E.D. if they would let her.”
“Cool. I think I’d like having one, really.”
“Great! The other thing is, I think we should get you a car.”
“Wow. Now you’re talkin’.” My head was already filling with visions of taking Hue out somewhere for dinner and a movie. Anywhere but a Hibachi joint.
“I thought you’d like that. Which is why I saved that for last. In fact, if you had resisted my suggestion of a diploma, I wouldn’t be bringing a car up.”
“I would do a whole lot more than that for a ride.”
“Well, as long as you’re committed, we don’t have to do it in that order. Your word is good with me. We can get a car for you, and you can drive yourself to get your G.E.D.”
“That sounds incredible.” And it really did. Not just because of my designs on Hue, but just the whole thing of reaching a new level of achievement and freedom. And responsibility. Every milestone like that made me feel a little more capable and adult. I don’t think I would be the same person now if I had never left Houston. No, I know I wouldn’t. If I had even made it out of there alive.
“That’s nice to hear, because your Auntie Til likes sleeping in, when Maxxy lets me. I have a friend who has a car he’s selling, if you’d like him to bring it over so you can take a look.”
“Really?” I didn’t care what it was. It was a car, and that’s as far as my vision extended.
“Of course. I think you know me well enough. If I’m lyin’, I’m dyin’.”
“I can’t wait.”
I didn’t have to wait long. Til took me out into the neighborhood, with me behind the wheel. It was pretty basic traffic, stop signs, speed zones. But it was my first venture into real world driving, and she said I did well.
Two days later, after she picked me up from work, there was a car in the driveway when we got home. But it wasn’t just any car. It was a blue ’63 Impala. Ragtop. Candy paint. Leather seats. A little steering wheel made out of chain. It was fresher than anything I had seen in L.A., and they were serious about their cars there. I was in love. Like if Hue was a car. It was deep and immediate. But my doubts immediately set in. 
“Aunt Til. I can’t afford this.”
“You’d be surprised,” she told me. “Never say never. I can probably get it for five thousand. You put in three, I’ll kick in a thousand. And we pay the rest over time.”
“Would they do that?” I didn’t try and think about how even five thousand wasn’t enough for a car like this. And I didn’t know at the time how customized it actually was. She could have thrown in the deed for the Brooklyn Bridge at that point, and I would have signed on the dotted line.
“I told you, it’s a friend’s. He’s a good friend.”
“Who do I have to shoot?” I said. She laughed. But it was a self-conscious laugh.
“Just make the payments and keep doing good. Auntie Til will handle the rest.”
I think y’all know by now how much I had come to love my aunt. But at that moment, she was queen of the world. An empress. Goddess.
“I won’t let you down.”
“I know you won’t. Want to drive it?”
“Now?”
“The keys are on the table. You have your permit. Why not?”
“Hell, yes. Please.”
We went inside, and when she handed them to me, said, “Just make the block a few times. You know what streets to avoid.”
And I did. L.A. operated off of a different sort of color code than the black, white, and brown of Houston. I knew enough that the color of your car mattered in some places. At the very least, I didn’t want a repeat of what had happened to me and Maxxy. I nodded and kept listening, taking things as seriously as I could, despite the fact that I wanted to run back to the driveway.
“Keep the top and the windows up, for now. Doors locked.”
“Jackers,” I said.
“That’s right. Go slow. But not too slow. Watch out for little kids. Kee-“
“I’ll do right, Aunt Til. I promise.”
“Okay, then. If you’re not back in twenty minutes, I’m coming look for you…”
“Yes, ma’am.” That old, southern honorific made its first appearance in L.A. almost since I had been there. That’s how solemn an occasion it was to me.
“Have fun…” she said. And I was out the door.
Man, I got in it and just sat there, stunned. But it was hot, so I rolled down my window and started it. Air conditioning! It blew hard and cold, too. Plus, a damn Alpine radio with a tape deck. When I had steadied my nerves enough, I rolled the window back up and put it in reverse. 
I was in the habit of zipping around in the cars pretty fast at work, but it was just on a tiny lot, and we had stuff to do. Suddenly, I was an old lady driver, on my own for the first time. I looked both ways twice, adjusted my mirror, and let it drift off the driveway via gravity alone. When I did apply the gas, it was lightly. But it was all good. The street was pretty low traffic. I shifted into forward, and I was off on my own for the first time. Basically, in my dream car. My dreams were kind of pedestrian, back then.
I decided to take the only route I knew by heart, which was to the nearest little store. Lucky for me that the drive was compatible with the car’s color. Which sounds like a ridiculous thing to say. At the same time, if you’ve been there, you know that shit is real as hell. 
	I made it there okay, but it was already getting attention. Cat’s heads turned when I drove past, and their eyes followed me up the block. When I pulled into the parking lot, I couldn’t bring myself to actually get out. I put it in park, though, and turned on the stereo.
	It was loud as hell. Too loud, for me. But it sounded clean, too. I had to turn it down, but the people in the store noticed, even. That’s not the crazy part, though. It was a tape by a cat named Curtis Mayfield. The song was ‘Superfly’. This was some player’s anthem shit. Between that and the ride, I felt like Superman.
	Then I noticed the switches. 
	I had never seen anything like it in a car at work, for sure. It was a lot of Toyotas, Fords, stuff like that, there. My curiosity got the better of me. I pushed the first one up, and the fuckin’ whole car raised up by six inches. Suddenly I was in Chitty Chitty Bang Bang or some shit. I laughed out loud. When I pushed it down, it returned to normal.
	I mean, the only thing I could do at that point was to push it down again. When I did, it sank to the asphalt. Fuck Chitty Chitty Bang Bang. I was James Bond. Luke Skywalker. I was in a lowrider hovercraft. I laughed again, unable to even believe what was happening, and did it a few more times. And probably would still be doing it, if I hadn’t heard a knock on my window.
	“Hey, daddy,” a voice said.
	Man, this girl was fine. If we’re just comparing stats, she made Hue look like a damn boy. All tits and ass, separated by an hourglass waist. She was wearing a velvety looking track suit, but the top was a long-sleeve half-shirt, and the waistline was rolled down. She had long, straight hair that went past her shoulders. That wasn’t even common, then. Shit, even now, it’s mostly fake. Her skin was a beautiful caramel color, just creamy and perfect. Her face was sweet as hell to match, with smiling, full lips. The herringbone necklace she wore over her top was definitely real, too, and probably a half inch wide. She had a tattoo across her stomach that said ‘Babygirl’…
	This is what a fool I was: I put it into reverse, and gave her a wave as I pulled out. She was a sure thing, one way or another, if not my first trick, had I played my cards right. And I ran away like she had pulled a gun on me. I didn’t even care. When I was rolling again, it was the furthest thing from my mind. It was only later that I kicked myself. I had the look, but I was turning fully into a square.   	
	 I worried more about getting back home in time.
	I turned the music back up some, and if you’re waiting for me to do something stupid, this is it. I hit the second of the four switches. I don’t know what I was thinking. Clearly, I wasn’t thinking at all. Just high on the whole scene. The right front tire lifted off the ground. I looked at it in amazement, and watched in slow motion as I drifted off to the right and hit a trashcan on the curb. I hit the brakes just in time to not knock it over.
	I can see the whole scenario now as it could have played out. Knock over the trash can (it was plastic, at least, so the car wasn’t hurt), get out like a fool to pick it up, leave the door open, car running, lose my five-thousand-dollar dream vehicle that isn’t even paid for. Plus, have to deal with disappointing Aunt Til heavily.
	But all I did was disappoint myself a little bit. I got my shit together, put it into reverse, and slowly backed up until I was well clear. Before I moved forward, I put all four wheels on the road, like a damn car is supposed to have. I pulled into the driveway just about when I was due to be back.
	Aunt Til was sitting at the table, glasses on, going over some accounting stuff. “Good drive?” she asked me, not looking up.
	“It was alright.”
	“That’s good.”
	“I’m playin’. It was incredible!” I ran over and kissed her on the cheek and squeezed her around her shoulders. It was the first time I had ever done such a thing with her.
	“That’s good,” she told me. “Watch out for those trash cans…”
	Son of a bitch! How did she know?
	I went in my room, still way more elated than embarrassed, and put my hands behind my head as I laid on the bed smiling. Things just kept getting better. As we all know, when things get too good for too long, something bad is bound to happen. But I wasn’t thinking that way. I was on top of the world, and nothing would ever bring me down.

Chapter 17 – When in Spain

	The car, and Aunt Til’s support, was inspiring. I had that G.E.D. two weeks later. It was pretty easy, too. The latest accomplishment in a series of them. Work continued, and I got a little raise. The owners saw how much higher the volume, and hence sales were, from my meager salary. That allowed me to pay a hundred a week on the car, and still have a little cash for gas. I saved every penny beyond that. Because I had goals.
	It took almost two months before I felt I was ready. That is a long ass-time. But one day at church, before services, I took Hue’s father aside, man to man, and asked him if I could take her out to dinner and a movie. It was the right approach, for sure.
	“I love my daughter very much.”
	“Yes, sir.”
	“I do not want her hurt. In any way.”
	“No, sir. Neither do I.”
	“You’re a good kid. I see that. Your Aunt Til speaks highly of you. I value her opinion. Hue also thinks well of you.”
	“Thank you,” I said.
	“So, yes. Dinner and a movie. Home by midnight.”
	“Yes, sir!” I told him. And that was that.
	This time when we sat together, I took her hand in mine, and she squeezed it gently. I think she knew what he and I had talked about. 
	Walking back to the cars later, when Maxxy and Sarah were cutting up and running wild, and Til and their parents were talking, we fell back a few steps behind them.
	“Friday night,” was all I said.
	“Really? That’s great! I can’t believe he said yes…”
	“He did. Dinner and a movie.”
	“Oh my god! I don’t have anything to wear! What are we going to see? What do you like to eat?”
	At the cars, before anyone else could hear us, I said, “You have my number…”
	She smiled and kissed my cheek. “Indeed, I do…”
	Then they drove off, with both sisters in the backseat waving at us.
	Look, if I could have died at that point, I might have been the happiest I had ever been. The ride home was a blur. Work was a blur. Other than talking on the phone with Hue for a little while each night, it was all just fuzzy until that Friday, when things took on a sharp focus, all of a sudden.
	“This is a Thomas Guide,” Aunt Til was telling me. She handed me a spiral bound book of maps of southern California, with Post-It notes sticking out of a few pages. “This is the route and the area you’re going to, highlighted. Plus, I wrote you directions.”
	She didn’t leave anything to chance, and it was impressive to see her work.
	“You said she like tapas. I made reservations at La Paella at seven. She’ll love it. Ask her what she likes, and then order yours, and say, ‘And the lady will have…’ and order for her. Got it?”
	“Yes, ma’am.” When Til was commanding like that, same as with Maxxy, she was impossible to ignore.
	“No drinking. No wine, no beer.”
	“I wasn’t planning on it.”
	“A girl you have to ply with alcohol is not the one.”
	I nodded, too embarrassed by the direction this was taking to respond.
	“And no weed. I know her father well, and he is very not cool with drugs. I don’t think you’ve been smoking, but-“
	“I haven’t.” And I really hadn’t. I had so much more going on, other than the little nothing-ass joint I had gotten from Til herself, I hadn’t even tried to get any. And I’m sure it wouldn’t have been hard to find.
	“Good. She is on a serious college track, and her parents, Duc especially, are very much trying to make sure she follows through.”
	“Duck?”
	“Dee-you-see. Duc. Her father.”
	“Heh. Cool. Mr. Duc.”
	“Mr. Nguyen,” she corrected me. But what she actually said was “Wen”. 
	“Okay. Wen.”
	“Now,” she said, and we laughed. “So, drive safely, follow the rules, get her back early. Got it?
	“I will.”
	“Good. He took a bit of convincing. I don’t think the mother likes us quite as much as the rest of the family does…”
	“I won’t let you down.”
	“You haven’t so far. Keep up the good work. Now, you’d better hurry and shower. Get there early, traffic will be a beast.”
	When I went into the damn unicorn bathhouse that was Maxxy’s bathroom, I found a new bottle of Coolwater cologne, and under it was a hundred-dollar bill. Aunt Til was literally the best. As it stood, before that, I was worried that I wouldn’t even be able to afford dinner and a movie. At least not some expensive-ass popcorn and Cokes on top of that.
	Afterward, I put on the best of the outfit I had. The one I had been wearing when I first met Hue. I looked sharp, but the biggest reason was because of how good I felt.
	On the way out, I kissed Aunt Til on the cheek. “I should be back around one.”
	“Don’t worry,” Til said. “I’ll be up… Call if you need the cavalry.”
	“Ha. I hope not!” I told her.
	As I walked out, Maxxy looked over her book at me and said, “Don’t do anything I wouldn’t do…”
	That girl was wild.
	I made pretty good time. When I got to the freeways, it was a different matter. I was really glad Til had pushed me to leave even earlier than I had wanted. As it was, I pulled up to Hue’s driveway ten minutes after I had planned to be there. I was leaning out to press the buzzer thing when the gate started opening automatically. 
	“You’re late,” the little box said in Hue’s voice. Then she laughed.
	I pulled in and kicked myself for not bringing her flowers. It seems so corny to do, and yet it is the only thing that could have made things more perfect. She didn’t care, though. She met me at the door, a vision of giggling loveliness. I was there to meet her parents again, and sort of, I don’t know, get talked to and sort of take possession of her. But she just yelled out something in Vietnamese and shut the door behind her. 
	I did at least open the car for her. I even held her hand as she sat down, and it was, like, old school romantic. Even though there was nothing old school about us. From the mismatched, unlikely pair we were, to the car, to her house, it was a thoroughly modern affair. So smoothed her skirt, and I closed the door. Damn, it was a strapless sort of black cocktail dress, too. Kind of not what I was expecting after seeing her in church. But I loved it. It also said volumes. Janice just said she has a title for this book, and it has a theme, but she won’t tell me what it is… (Subject to change without notice. – Janice.)
	“So, where are we going?” she asked me as I started to turn around.
	“Uh, La Paella, it’s called.”
	She squealed. “Omg, I heard it’s very good! You are so sweet to remember about tapas!”
	Well, this was off to a great start. Like everything else, I had Aunt Til to thank for almost all of it.
	Once we were on the freeway, she slid on over next to me as I turned on the stereo. This time, it wasn’t Curtis Mayfield, but a tape Aunt Til gave me, The Ohio Players. It opened with ‘Fire’, and it fit the atmosphere so perfectly, it was like it was written for that moment. I wish that drive had never ended. But a few songs later, I had already reached the exit, and reached for the directions Til had given me, which were folded up and sticking out of the ashtray.
	“Let me do that,” Hue said when she saw me trying to unfold it and drive at the same time. She oriented herself. (No pun intended. – Janice.) (Clearly someone intended a pun. You get one, I hope it was worth it. – Tokio.) and then said, “Okay… two streets down, we take a left.”
	Pretty soon, we were in the parking lot. Valet. I knew it was going to be fancy, but I didn’t imagine it being anything like it was. When they opened our door and let us out, I told the driver, “Don’t hit the switches.” I doubt he knew what they were for, but he said, “Absolutely, sir.” I was feeling like ace baller supreme.
	Hue walked in on my arm, and I gave my name. We were a few minutes early, but they seated us, smooth as glass. They brought us some rolls, water, and a menu. “Zinfandel,” she said to the busboy, and he nodded. I didn’t know what that was.
	The waiter came over with a bottle of wine, and showed her the label, then he poured her a glass, and tried to do the same for me. “No, thank you,” I told him, and he said, “I’ll give you two a few minutes, then.”
	“I’m not sure that’s such a good idea,” I told Hue.
	“Oh, it’s one glass. Plus,” she said, “we’re in Spain…”
	I let it go. And I would have let a lot go, with her, but that was the only real hitch of the night, on her part. She explained several of the dishes to me, and we got a few things to share. It was a lot of finger food, and that made it fun, and easy to talk. She told me about her plans for school, biology major, pre-med. That was impressive. We talked about my job, and I explained what I really wanted to do for a living. It wasn’t exactly some Lady and the Tramp shit, but it was nice. 
	The food had arrived fast, and we were probably too excited to eat a whole lot. We packed up the rest, well, they did, and I paid the bill. Something like ninety dollars, with a sixteen percent tip built in. Thank God for Aunt Til.
	The theater was nearby, and it was one of those twelve-screen multiplexes. There were too many good movies to pick from. I let Hue decide, and she had me worried, as her interest switched from ‘Eyes of Laura Mars’ to ‘Pretty Baby’ and a ‘The Lord of the Rings’ cartoon, before finally settling on ‘Animal House’. (I am so disappointed in Hue. – Janice.) (Never mind the white lady behind the curtain. – Tokio.). We laughed so damn hard at it all, beginning to end. It was a perfect first date flick. We left out of the theater still smiling.
	At the car, as I opened her door, Hue closed it again and turned to face me. 
	“Kiss me,” she said.
	I had been waiting for her my whole life, it felt like, and for that exact moment. It was so much better than if I had made some awkward attempt. One good kiss from Hue was more intoxicating than even Aunt Til’s exotic weed. And this was a great kiss. Long, and slow, and beautiful. I wanted to touch her. But I think it might have spoiled the moment. Til had taught me to take life slow and deliberately.  
	When we stopped, Hue said, “Mmmm…” and I opened the door for her again. We were both a bit heated after that, I could tell. I guess to some people the night could have gone better. To me, it was the best first date anyone could ever have.
	Three blocks later, before the freeway, we had red and blue lights behind us.
	Man, fuck. I hadn’t done a single thing wrong, either. Not speeding, obviously. I used my turn signals, I stopped fully at the stop signs. If I say driving while black, that’s just part of it. The rest was the car, and Hue. I realize now that I looked like the pimps in H-Town, and the ballers that ran wild in South Central. And quickly learned the value of being low-key, although it was years before I employed that knowledge.
	I didn’t say shit. Hue was pissed. I had her get my paperwork out of the glovebox, and pulled out my wallet and got my learner’s permit, which was very adamant about me driving with a licensed driver at all times. She said something in Vietnamese, which I am going to assume translated to “motherfucker”, and then grabbed her purse. It was heavy. When she opened it, I saw the unmistakable glint of gunmetal, and she put her license on top of mine. “Give him mine, too,” she said.
	He walked up, and I rolled down my window. “What is the problem, officer?” she said.
	“Suspicious vehicle,” he told us. “Possible grand theft auto.”
	“Bullshit,” she said. “Wait.” She pulled out a business card and put it on top of the licenses I was holding. “Give him this with it.”
	I handed everything over, and he read the business card first. Then he looked at her license. By the time he read the address, he was done. He gave everything back without even looking at mine, the registration, anything.
	“You two have a nice night,” he said, and started walking away. 
	“You can go fuck yourself!” she yelled at him. He didn’t even pause. Man, I thought Maxxy was wild. The difference being, little Maxxy would have blasted him, if need be. Of course, I’m not too sure if the same wasn’t true about Hue. She just had other ways of solving things.
	I looked at what I had handed him. It was a law firm’s card, and Hue’s wasn’t a permit, it was a full-blown license. She was nineteen. My mind was being blown all over the place. Did everyone in L.A. carry a piece? I pulled out in silence, even more cautious than I had been before. 
	Hue was nonplussed. The only real thing she said about it was, “That could have been worse. Dad would have been pissed. He’s so worried about the family business.”
	I didn’t see how it could affect a hibachi restaurant, but my mood was spoiled, and I was in no mood for conversation. She eventually moved back over by me and put the radio on again. Even that didn’t do too much to improve my attitude. But it did help some.
	When we drove back into the gate at her place, we were a few minutes early. “Pull up close to the garage,” she said.
	I killed the engine, and we sat there for a minute. I was still shaken, and fuming.
	“Hey,” she said. “I had fun. Forget it. No harm done.”
	When she said that I was prepared to try and let it go. But then she said, “Kiss me again…”
	This time, it was even more electrifying. We found ourselves heavily lip-locked, and now my hands didn’t shy away from her. And Hue didn’t shy away from my hands. This went on for maybe a hundred years. Or a single second. Either is a valid approximation. Until her watched beeped.
	“11:59, gotta go!” she said, and gave me one more quick kiss on the lips. “I had fun. Let’s do it again, okay?”
	I just sat there dazed for a moment as she let herself in. Then I cranked the engine and headed back to Aunt Til’s. Even Hue didn’t lift my mood entirely. I didn’t even want to listen to music on the way home. 
	
	
	 

Chapter 18 – Inscrutable

	By Sunday, I had forgotten about anything but Hue. All it took was me seeing her again. She asked me what we were doing Friday, and I had to think fast. “Minigolf and ice cream,” I said.
	“Yay!”
	Minigolf and ice cream were all I could afford, at that point, so I was glad she was enthused. The work week went by in slow motion, and at the same time, effortlessly. I don’t know how it is for women, but for me, at least, when you’re in love like that, there is no labor or challenge that you can’t handle with a smile on your face. Everything is lighter and easier; the air is cleaner. Things even smell and taste differently. 
	The second date was even better. No incidents, everything was just fun as hell. There was a point when I stood behind Hue and helped her make a hole in one, and it was somehow more intimate than anything I had ever done with a girl in Houston. And I had done plenty. But there was never any real closeness there. Not like this.
	Our basic routine went on for months. We got closer, in a lot of ways. In some ways I am not going to sit here and tell Janice about. Honestly, not quite as close as all that. But a reasonable substitute. (You are rather reticent for a pimp and partial owner of an adult film company… – Janice.)
	One Friday before our now regularly scheduled dates, I had finally paid my car off. Even though the title had long since been in my name, it was still an amazing feeling. The only thing better was Hue. Maxxy presented me with a sheet of paper. “I need two copies of this book when you go out tonight, please. Any major bookseller should have it.”
	“Why two copies?”
	“I have my reasons.”
	I didn’t think much about it. Maxxy was a weird kid, but requesting a book was the most natural thing in the world, with her. It would have been stranger for her to not ask for a book, at times. This wasn’t the first time it had happened. Two copies was odd, to me, but not exactly very note-worthy.
	So that night, it became part of our date. In fact, it mostly was the date. I shouldn’t have been surprised that Hue took to the bookstore in the same way Maxxy would have. We browsed for a while, and she told me about ones she had read, ones she wanted to read. The one she picked out was Foundation, by Isaac Asimov. She said it was really more about psychology, but that the author was a biochemist himself. 
	When she saw the book I had gotten for Maxxy, she laughed. “Oh, my. That’s a bit dry, even for her. Why two copies?”
	“Your guess is as good as mine,” I told her. It was thick, and, yeah, it was probably a lot to take in even for an adult. But we all know Maxxy was different.
	On a whim, I went to the “S” section. To my surprise and delight, there was another Iceberg Slim book that I hadn’t known about. I don’t know why, but I thought he was some sort of one-off author. It was called “Trick Baby”. When Hue saw me pick it out, she said, “Interesting…” and laughed. Then she went a few feet to my left. She grabbed another title and put it with the others. It was called “Hustling” by an author named Gail Sheedy.
	“I never read the one you want, but my mom had this one. Not a kid’s book, so of course I read it. I think you’ll like it…”
	I paid for everything, even though Hue didn’t expect me to. She seemed to just be happy in my company, and we both knew she had far more money than I did. It was likely a conscious decision to let me lead. Looking back now, it was almost role-playing on her part. She was older, more worldly, and far wealthier than I was. But when we were together, none of that came into play. I think she was conscious of the situation, and considered my feelings, on a deeper level. That’s love, man. Real love, as far as I knew.
	We sat in the little shop at the bookstore and had iced coffees and bear claws. That was our entire dinner that night. She talked about starting school, having taken a year off after high school. Because, she said, she was in an advanced program there, and her parents didn’t want her to burn out. I was wondering what it was like to have parents like that. But then I thought of Aunt Til, and it was exactly the sort of thing she would do. So, I kind of knew.
	We stayed until closing time. After that, we drove to a park and did the things we usually did before I dropped her off at home. (Made fondue? – Janice.) Although we definitely kissed and did a lot of hand holding and hugging on our dates, that part of each night was kept sort of separate. It took a lot of pressure off of me, somehow, and was something to look forward to. But it wasn’t the main focus of our nights, even for me. Look, I’m not very eloquent, okay? I’m trying to tell you that I loved her more than all that.
	I drove her home, and we pulled up close to the garage like we always did, which I had learned was because no one could see us from the windows. The same sort of protracted goodbyes were exchanged, tongue to tongue, although it was a lot more intense than that, by this point. (Oh, my. How racy. – Janice.) As usual, her watch went off with a minute to spare. “See you Sunday!” she said, getting out.
	I grabbed her wrist. “I love you,” I told her.
	“Aww. You’re so sweet.” She kissed me once more, and went inside.
	I didn’t know how to feel about that. It wasn’t the best feeling in the world, to be honest. Not the end of the world or anything. But not how I had expected that to go. It was mostly forgotten about by the time I got home. Not fully. But mostly. I was already looking forward to church. Which sounds like the funniest thing in the world for me to say. But, you know.
	That Sunday, though, when we were all picking up Maxxy and Sarah (Who I had found out was actually named Nu, but that had caused too much confusion when she started school, so she had picked out her own alias. They called her Nu-Nu at home. More confusing to me was that Nu meant ‘girl’ in Vietnamese.), Aunt Til said, “So, getting excited about Stanford?” to Hue.
	They talked animatedly about that for a little while, and it was a conversation that I wasn’t really a part of.
	Back at home, after loading up at Waffle House as was our routine, Maxxy announced a change in plans. “Today,” she said, “I am teaching you my unbreakable cipher.” She put the two copies of the book I had gotten her in front of us, along with two notepads and pencils.
	“What’s that?”
	“A variation on a classic encryption technique, made better by yours truly.”
	“First lesson, then. What the hell is encryption?”
	“Encoding. Disguising a message.”
	“Spy shit.”
	“Exactly, cousin! Spy shit.”
	“To what end, though?”
	“Because I can. Actually, it has applications in data processing. But also, hope for the best, and prepare for the worst.”
	Aunt Til was cooking dinner, and chimed in, “If you want peace, prepare for war.”
	“So, this book can teach me about encryption?”
	“Ha! No. That’s one thing it can’t do. But you’re going to read it.”
	“What’s it about?”
	It was called “Atlas Shrugged”, and it was thick as hell.
	“Oh, all sorts of things. But the main premise is deciding things for yourself. I can’t tell you what it’s about. That is open to interpretation.”
	“And misinterpretation…” Til added.
	“I chose it as the basis for our lesson because it’s so long.” She opened her notebook, and tore out a sheet of paper. It had a page full of numbers, all in one big block. “This is the message,” Maxxy said. “No one could ever crack except for you and me.”
	“And me,” Til said.
	“Right. Because mama knows what the seed book is. And she helped me write the cipher.” 
	I looked at the page she had slid over to me. It was definitely incomprehensible. A lot of zeroes, and random looking numbers, with no breaks in between anything. It looked impossible to figure out, to me, anyway.
	“This is a time-honored technique. Each of those numbers refers to a word on a page. Decode it, and you will reveal a sentence. If you don’t know what book was the basis for the message, the numbers have no meaning. Even a different version of the book will render it useless.”
	“So, all you have to do is keep the source secret,” I said.
	“Ordinarily. But I made mine even harder.”
	She explained her process to me. The zeroes were used to pad out the lengths, which broke each word down into a ten number block. That part was easy enough to understand. But even the order of the page number and the word number could be reversed. Whatever the pattern of the first word was would be reversed on the second one, and then kept alternating like that. So even if you had all the information I had, there would be two possible messages, and one would be gibberish.
	“That is way too complicated,” I said.
	“That’s why it’s so good! Anyway, try it…”
	I made some marks between the blocks of ten letters on the first few lines so I could make sense of them. When I looked up the first word, it was ‘the’, and I wrote it down in my notebook.
	“Good!” Maxxy said. “Now work it the other way.”
	I tried that, and got ‘the’ again.
	“It’s the same word.”
	“Ha! I did that on purpose. That way you can’t even figure out the pattern from the first word.”
	“It’s not perfect,” Aunt Til said. “That book isn’t the best choice, because the page numbers exceed the possible word counts. Ideally, you would have an eight-digit pattern, and a four-hundred-page book or whatever, so the two numbers stay in a more similar range.”
	“Don’t take this away from me, mama.” Maxxy said.
	“Just an observation. That’s how you could improve on it.”
	Aunt Til was wild. Any other parent would be baffled, or piling on the praise, in the usual best case scenario. Til was picking apart Maxxy’s system and telling her it could use some work.
	“Noted. But nevertheless, this is the seed book for us. Clarence, please continue.”
	I set about figuring out the second word. The first pass, I got the word ‘a’, and the other attempt resulted in the word ‘person’. Based on that, I decided what the pattern was and decoded the rest of the sentence. Before I was all the way done, I saw that the message was uniquely Maxxy’s.
	“The person reading this is a butt,” I finally said.
	“Hahahaha!”
	It was pretty funny. “That was a long way to go for a joke.”
	“The best kind of joke, I think. But you have to admit, it’s a good system.”
	It really was. I didn’t see how anyone would ever need it, but as a secret code went, it was pretty solid.
	“Class dismissed,” Maxxy said, cutting our day short. “Good work, cousin.”
	I went back in my room and read more of my new Slim book. For dinner, we had short ribs that had been cooked down all day, and some loaded baked potatoes. In the course of conversation, Til said, “So the Nguyens are having a family dinner Tuesday after next to celebrate Hue’s college acceptance, and they’ve invited us.”	
	“That’s really nice,” I said. And it was. It kind of made us family.
	“The semester starts in two weeks…” Aunt Til said.
	“Cool,” I said, continuing to stuff my face.
	“Clarence, Stanford is by San Francisco.”
	The color probably drained from my face when she told me that. Maybe Hue had assumed I knew. But she never said she was going away. I figured she was going to live at home, or in a dorm nearby. That nothing would ever change.
	I couldn’t have been more wrong.

Chapter 19 – What The Pho

	The next couple weeks were hard, for me. Mostly because nothing had changed, and everything had changed. I still saw Hue twice a week, and everything was as great as it had always been. But she acted like nothing was happening. Meanwhile, my little world was shattering. The only time I wasn’t kind of morose was when I was with her, and it took a lot of conscious effort on my part to hide my feelings on the matter.
	I read the Hustling book with an intensity that even the Iceberg books had failed to generate. In part because it was from Hue, and thus a part of her, somehow. But also, because it showed me an entirely different level of the game.
	The difference between it and Slim’s take on The Life was as different as black and white, if you’ll forgive me. The author had spent time with a Jewish New York pimp named David, and interviewed him extensively. He had a stable of upper-class whores, and as a result of his efforts, paid no rent on his condo and nothing for the limos that they rented nightly. Not that the girls paid for it, but that he used them as the payment themselves.
	Their nights consisted of clubbing and money-making. He even described picking up other women to party with them, and making bank without them ever knowing they had been pimped out. That is some deep game. In other words, it had changed my view of that lifestyle entirely. It had none of the ugly aspects of Iceberg Slim’s take. No violence, police, shit like that. Just pure hustling. It opened my eyes, man. Opened them wider, I should say.
	I did my best to keep my feelings to myself. Not just around Hue, but at home with Til and Maxxy. I thought I did pretty good, but inside, I was a mess. Love hurt a lot more than I had ever thought it could. That last Sunday at church was one of the hardest things I had ever done. 
	It was the one thing that was beyond little Maxxy’s comprehension. Nothing major was going on, in her eyes, and so we did schoolwork like always. My heart wasn’t in it. I had reached the end of the pre-algebra book, and that really was a big deal. I didn’t feel much, in fact.
	Aunt Til, though. She knew. And she didn’t just know what was going on intellectually, she could pick up on my mood no matter how much I downplayed things when I was around her. Because a few hours later, she told me to get ready for dinner. “Dress nice,” she said.
	So I did, even though I wasn’t feeling it at all. Imagine my surprise when we pulled up at the hibachi place… That just made me feel so much worse. It was kind of a slap in the face, and I really thought Til was more sensitive than all that.
	They ushered us in to the big cooking surface tables that Maxxy loved, but before I sat down, Til said, “Over there…” and pointed to the far corner of the booths on the other side of the restaurant. I could see Hue sitting down facing in the other direction. My heart tried to climb out of my throat. I didn’t say anything, just went to her.
	When I walked up to the table, she said, “Clarence!” and jumped up to hug me. I squeezed her so tight, I’m surprised I didn’t hurt her. Then I started sobbing.
	She just held me. She didn’t care who was looking, where we were. She just held me and I got it all out. When I finally stopped, she wiped my tears away with a little handkerchief. It was a pretty beautiful thing. She did understand, and she did care. That was something. She slid back into the booth, and I tried to sit opposite of her, but she said, “No. Sit next to me…”
	This time, she ordered for me. She knew what the best plates were there, of course. Over dinner, she finally did talk about Stanford with me. Not about school, but about how she was going away, and how that had been her parents’ plan long before I had ever come along. She said she had even tried to change schools to UCLA. Her father had listened, even if he hadn’t been very enthusiastic about it. Her mother, though, had put her foot down. 
	One thing she didn’t talk about, though, was me coming visit her. Five hundred miles wasn’t really all that far. I didn’t understand why it never came up, and I didn’t say anything about it either, as a result. My heart was already stretched thin enough as it was.
	We talked and ate, though, and it was still nice. A real bonus, seeing her like that, and at least sort of putting some sort of closure to things. In fact, we talked so much, that I hadn’t even noticed the time. Aunt Til and Maxxy walked up to get me, and when I looked around, the restaurant was empty.
	“We’d better go,” she told us. “Tuesday will be here before you know it, kids.”
	I kissed Hue deeply right there in front of them. Maxxy let out a long, comical whistle. 
	“See you soon,” she whispered to me. And then we were out.
	It was a little better for me, after that. I was still losing her, it felt like, but I had already come to terms with that. Knowing she really did care, and that it had affected her too, took some of the edge off the whole thing. Not enough to mend my broken heart, but it was something, at least.
	That Monday, I spent the afternoon picking out a new outfit for the dinner. It was easily my freshest and most expensive set of clothes. I think in some silly way, I wanted Hue to think about what she was losing. Childish of me, but men are like that. Big children. 
	And Til was right, just like she always was. Tuesday night came up quick.
	After work, I rushed home and got ready. They wore their best Sunday clothes, too, and it was a good feeling to see that they (or Til, at least) understood how important this was for me. What I hadn’t expected, for whatever reason, was that the going away dinner was at Hue’s house.
	The driveway and lawn were packed with cars. Expensive ones, of course. I’m not sure why that surprised me. Not flashy ones, but the sort of ones that were high-end tasteful. There were so many that they were lined up on the side of the street outside of the gates, which is where we pulled in. You’ll forgive me for saying that I was glad about that. Their maid probably drove a nicer car than Til had.
	The gate was left open, though. When we went to get out, Maxxy gave me a bouquet of roses that she had hidden in the backseat with her. “Here, knucklehead,” she told me. It was so perfect. I could have kicked myself for not thinking of that.
	When we rang the doorbell, Hue opened the door herself. When she saw me, she rushed forward and squeezed me tight, and put little kisses all over my face.
	“Oh, are these for my mother? How sweet!” she said, taking the flowers. I laughed. She grabbed my hand and pulled me inside, and Aunt Til and Maxxy followed, more or less ignored. It wasn’t rude of her, really, she was just excited to see me, and I was flattered. 
	There were a few people in the living room, family, but not people I had ever met before. Heads turned. The conversations were all in Vietnamese, and I bet there was a lot of talk about my presence. Nothing too bad, I think, because I had learned Maxxy knew how to say ‘nigger’ in about twelve languages. Not to mention every other curse word you can think of.
	Hue ignored them all, and pulled me into the dining room, which was loaded with more family, all sipping drinks and talking to each other. 
	“Everyone, this is Clarence,” she said. Then she repeated it in Vietnamese. Heads nodded, and there were a few polite hellos. It was at that moment that I began to understand how much she really did care, because it was what you would call a cool reception. The fact of the matter was, Hue was going against everything her family believed in. Immigrant families like that, I think, expect their children to stick to people like themselves. And that’s reasonable, I would say. But the fact that I was black was probably far more than they were prepared for. 
	Still, it wasn’t ugly or anything. Just… reserved. I picked up on the slight tension, for sure. Maxxy broke the ice by saying something cute in Vietnamese, and people laughed out loud. Whatever it was must have been a real icebreaker, because the sort of stunned silence of moments earlier turned back into smiles and discussions, and I felt a lot more welcomed after that. 
	Then she yelled out, “Do-yun!” and ran over to someone sitting at the table. He stood up and she hugged him. It was the chef from the restaurant, and I thought it was pretty cool that he was invited. It said something to me that he wasn’t just an employee to them. 
	“You sit by me,” he told Maxxy, and pulled out her chair, and then took Til’s hand and seated her on the other side of him. Hue had never let go of mine, and she led us to the seats opposite of them. A few minutes later, the others came in and seated themselves.
	Man, when that food started coming out, I didn’t think it was ever going to end. Four people brought out dish after dish until the entire long table was covered. Despite the setting, it was all really informal, and people just started loading up their plates. It was entirely different food from the hibachi stuff I associated with Hue, but of course that was a Japanese restaurant. And the chef was Korean, which is funny, when you think about it. 
	Hue took the time to explain what everything was, and dishes were passed up and down the table in both directions. There were lots of sticky rice dishes, and I tried to at least get a spoonful of each one. She filled a bowl with soup for me, and explained it was called “fuh”, but was spelled “pho”. “Never call it pho,” she told me. “None of them will ever respect you if you do.”
	Maxxy, though, said, “This is pho-king great!” and Hue and I laughed so hard, along with Til and Maxxy’s apparent love interest.
	There was another soup I liked, it was served cold, but had braised ribs in it. Some fried dough balls that were really good. The best were these fried spring rolls. They didn’t look all picture perfect like the spring rolls I had ever ate before, but man. They tasted twice as good. About the only thing I didn’t try were the snails.
	When everyone was settled into eating and talking among themselves, Hue whispered in my ear. “Eat everything on your plate, but do it kinda fast,” she said.
	I don’t know. I thought it was some sort of etiquette, so of course I did. Before I had finished, though, her father gave a little speech about her going away to college, how proud they were of her, and what a great daughter she was. I thought that was real cool. 
	After an appropriate amount of time had passed, Hue said, “Come on,” while people started having after dinner drinks.
	“I’m going to show Clarence my room. Be right back…”
	She led me upstairs by the hand, and when we got in there, she didn’t even switch on the light. To this day, I can’t tell you what her room looked like.
	“We have ten minutes at most,” she said, and laid down on the floor. (Oh, my… - Janice.)
	I lasted about four, maybe. 
	I also did the dumbest thing I could have ever done in that situation. She was a smart girl, and nothing ever came of it, but wow. I had completely lost my mind. If she had gotten pregnant, though, I would have been the happiest man in the world. In my head, she would have been mine forever, and we’d probably have the cutest baby in the world. A whole bunch of them, eventually.
	“That was nice,” she whispered in my ear and held me close to her for a minute. “I love you, too…”
	When we finally got up (and I’m surprised she didn’t have her watch set), she smoothed out her dress, and we walked back downstairs again like nothing had ever happened. Her father paid no real attention when we got back, but I did see her mother eyeing me with suspicion. Not that I gave a damn about that, really.
	The end of the night came around eventually, though. People started leaving, and we all said our goodbyes to the family. Aunt Til and Maxxy walked out ahead of us, and left Hue and I outside the door.
	“I’m really going to miss you, Clarence. I’m sorry about all of this. I didn’t know things would be this way, you know? It was just fun, at first. I want you to understand, it’s hard for me, too. And who knows what the future might bring?”
	I liked the sound of that. I think she knew that it was exactly what I needed to hear. She squeezed me tight, pecked me on the cheek one last time, and that was it. She went back inside, and I caught up with Maxxy and Til. We drove home, and everyone was in good spirits for a change.
	When we got back to the house, Maxxy went into her room and stayed there.
	“Sit down, Clarence,” Aunt Til said. And it was a little ominous. Not her tone, which was warm, but the whole scenario. I thought maybe she had figured out what had gone on upstairs, and I was going to get a lecture on responsibility or something.
	I wish that was all it had been.
	“I wanted to wait until Hue was off to school to tell you. Your mother and her sister got a house together. They’re ready for you to come back…”
	All of a sudden, losing Hue was the most minor thing in the world.

Chapter 20 – Such Sweet Sorrow

	I didn’t really say shit to Aunt Til when she broke the news to me. But I didn’t cry or anything, either. I was tired of crying. The past year or so had contained enough of that. She let the moment pass without embellishing, and allowed me to grieve in silence.
	I was still working. But Friday was to be my last day. I spent an inordinate amount of time in my room that week, and that’s something else I regret in life. I was so torn up about leaving my adopted family, I squandered my final week there by being withdrawn and feeling sorry for myself.
	After the last day of work, I got paid, and a round of handshakes from the owners and Cooter. They all said they were sorry to see me go, and that I always had a job with them if I ever came back. In fact, if I didn’t have a mom to take care of, I don’t think Til could have made me leave. When I opened my pay envelope later, there was an extra two hundred dollars in it. Once again, work gave me a feeling of accomplishment that few things ever had.
	When I got back to the house, I was finally feeling a little bit better about everything. It had taken all week for me to come to terms with it, but I needed to grow up. It helped that I was going back to a real house and not some shitty apartment. I had a dream ride unlike any I had ever seen before. I had been in a shootout. Got my G.E.D. Romanced a beautiful Asian girl. Learned a new trade. What the fuck did I have to feel sorry about, really?
	A lot, honestly. Til and Maxxy were the most amazing people I had ever known. But like Maxine’s stuffies, they weren’t leaving the planet. I was just going back home. Things can always be worse, and that’s an important thing to remember. Things can always be better, but they can also always be worse. 
	When I walked in the door, Maxxy blew a paper horn in my face and threw confetti at me. She and Aunt Til were wearing party hats, and there was a big banner made out of colored letters that said, “We Love You, Clarence!”. 
“Surprise!” they both yelled out together.
	Shit. Damned if I wasn’t crying again anyway. But it was a different kind. The good kind. And it was just a few damn tears. If you can’t cry in front of the people you love sometimes, what’s the point of anything at all?
	Maxxy insisted I wear my own hat, a blue-sequined one like something the Monopoly man wore. It was ridiculous, and I loved it. She led me by the hand to the table, where Til had a big cake she made. It probably took all day. Not just some shit out of a box with a can of frosting on it. It had a map of the U.S. with a dotted line going from L.A. to Texas, complete with a little green Matchbox car that was pretty close to the one I owned.
	“Good luck on your next journey!” it said. “Love, Maxxy and Aunt Til.”
	Even that was special. It really underscored the fact that it wasn’t just a routine act of moving back home. It was me going on to new things. Maybe not better things, from my perspective. But it was far from the end of the world, just like losing Hue hadn’t been. Even though both of those things had felt like they were, at the time. And, again, it wasn’t like I was going back to Fifth Ward. I could have dealt with that, even, by then. I had a house to go to (Which they were actually buying, but I didn’t know that at the time.), I had two different sets of job opportunities, and I had been through it in Los Angeles. I wasn’t even seventeen yet. 
	My acceptance of things really made our little going-away party light and fun, as it should have been. We had chocolate-chip mint ice cream and cake, which was red velvet. Pretty much my least favorite cake, but I couldn’t complain. I made myself eat a big piece with a smile on my face. Maxxy spent the duration sitting a lot closer to me than she usually did, and I kept seeing Aunt Til smiling at me when my attention was drawn elsewhere.
	It was the perfect going away party. 
	“You know, Clarence, you can always come back in a few years if you want to. But your Aunt and mother need you, right now. Plus, me and Maxxy might be living in Alabama by then, which is a damn sight closer than L.A. is. We might even turn up in Texas at some point.”
	“Yee-haw!” Maxxy said. For once, she didn’t sound sarcastic.
	When we were done eating and talking, Til went and got presents for me out of her room. They were all wrapped up real nice, and I understood that they had spent all day working on this party for me. There were even packages for my mother and her sister. It was real cool stuff, too. A whole new outfit, new sneakers, which I knew for a fact were pretty expensive, and best of all, I think, a really fancy shaving kit. 
	It sort of signified my transition into adulthood. Instead of using some plastic disposable razor, I now had something I cherished. Because it was from Til and Maxxy. It also said that I should expect and strive for great things in life, instead of settling for the norm. I don’t know. Maybe I am ascribing too much significance to it. But it became symbolic of that whole part of my life, to me.
	Maxxy brought a present for me out of her room. She had wrapped it herself, and used the Sunday comics instead of Aunt Til’s wrapping paper. It was appropriately cute in that, although she had tried her best, it looked like a little kid had done it. That day just sticks out to me, still. I have seen and done a lot, and probably even had better days since then, but every detail remains sharply focused in my mind.
	It was a book. I knew that before I opened it, as soon as I saw it. I mean, it was Maxxy. When I unwrapped it, it had the unlikely, lengthy title “Blake; or The Huts of America: A Tale of the Mississippi Valley, the Southern United States, and Cuba”. Later, I learned that it was considered the first black science fiction novel. It was originally published as a serial, and fell into the alternate history category, which I hadn’t known was even a thing, at the time.
	I read it later when I was back in Texas, and man. It was written in part before the Civil War, and this cat was heavy. It was about a slave revolt, and the foundation of a black country. Not only that, but it used dialect in the same sort of way that Iceberg Slim did, even though it was entirely different language. It also dealt heavily with the south. It was thoroughly black, but also thoroughly Maxxy. Just the damn perfect gift, somehow. Some eye-opening shit, to me. Not just because of what it was, but when it was from. I still marvel to think that there was a dude way back then that was such a heavy writer. That he would write such a thing back then almost feels like an alternate history sci-fi book itself, if that makes any sense.
	After that, Aunt Til cleaned up everything. She wouldn’t even let me help. She was trying to teach me something else back then, I think. Looking back at life now, I think about how many women I knew who thought that something like that was beneath them. But with her, it wasn’t something she did because she had to or anything. She did it out of love, and I always felt that she honestly enjoyed doing things like that for me. It probably sounds a little weird that my aunt set the stage for the qualities I would later seek out in women, but to me, it all feels perfectly natural. That’s what her actions all said to me, taken as a whole. I don’t think it’s unrelated that she was one of the most content women I have ever known. Maxxy’s father, whoever he was, must have been one of the happiest men alive.
	It’s probably also seems strange that I came to feel love for a man I had never even known, and a white one, at that. But I don’t give a fuck what you think about all that. He loved Aunt Til, she loved him, and they made Maxxy. That makes him more important to me than motherfucking Jesus, Einstein, and Martin Luther King put together. That man means far more to me than my own father, if you can dig it.
	The whole weekend, we spent almost all of our time together. We went and played minigolf, finally. When Saturday Night Live rolled around, Aunt Til pulled me to go in the backyard and smoke our second-ever joint together. That show has never been funnier than that night. Garret Morris played a black spaceman, and ended up flying a dick-shaped spaceship through a circular one. Even Maxxy’s presence didn’t make it as awkward as it should have been. We all laughed together, and really hard, at that. (No pun intended. – Janice.)
	On Sunday, though, we didn’t go to church, and I was grateful for that. It wasn’t a terrible experience, but without Hue, I had no interest in sitting still and listening to what I considered bullshit platitudes. I would have sat there feeling bad about it the whole time, anyway. The fact that Maxxy let that pass without complaining about not seeing her friends really says a lot about her maturity.
	Instead of breakfast, we all slept in for a change, and had a late lunch, or brunch, I suppose. It was the most unlikely meal ever, to me. Fried chicken and waffles, which Til explained was sort of an L.A. thing. It was amazing. You would never in your life consider putting syrup on fried chicken, I bet. But damn if it doesn’t taste like they were made for each other.
	Since I seem to still have your attention, here’s an aside. I know you motherfuckers like to joke about fuckin’ fried chicken and watermelon. Hell, I’ve probably laughed about it at some point, myself. That is a southern thing, not a black thing, as such. It might be ascribed to us, but if you’ve never had the simple pleasures of chicken battered and fried by a sweet and beautiful southern woman, cold watermelon in the summer, and sat on your porch cracking pecans and eating them out of the shell, you ain’t from the south. I don’t care what color you are. 
	For that matter, things in the south are not what people say they are. I notice that people up north like to look down their noses at us. They claim some sort of superiority, and believe they are somehow more enlightened. Texas has it’s problems, for sure. When you get a little more into the deep south, east of that, people down there really are a lot more integrated and friendly than folks up north.
	What I have noticed up north is that white people there all have that one black friend who ‘talks good’, and works with them at the insurance agency or some shit. Then they go home to their suburban homes where black people aren’t a thing, and pat themselves on the back for how good they are by not being Klansman. Meanwhile, a lot of us live up there in project tenement buildings eight stories high with no fire escapes, and those places are to be avoided. Even when they’re slapped into the middle of the Coney Island side of Brooklyn. They’re little fuckin’ concentration camps, and a whole different world. You can claim Marcia that talks white as your friend, but you are blind to the plight of the rest of us.
One example I like to use is that if you’re actually racist, and not just prone to stereotypes and slight biases, you are not inviting black people into your home to raise your kids or cook your meals. I don’t know. I guess I am prejudiced myself, but southern people are probably the best people in the country, and that applies to most of the white folks down there, too.
	In other words, what you believe about us is bullshit. I am as much a southerner as I am black, if that makes any sense. That’s not to say there aren’t people in the south who I wouldn’t miss at all if something bad happened to them. But I have encountered that all over. Up north, it’s a lot more low-key and behind the scenes. If you hate black people, I’d prefer to just know that up front, and not have you smile in my face and then go home and talk shit about me. The real problem racists, to me, are in the bank boardrooms, zoning commissions, and executive offices. Inbred, sister-fucking Jethro isn’t really too much of a threat to me. 
	(Janice just said that I didn’t sound all that different from them, and she’s probably right. We all pick up some of these biases from experience. All she knows of black people, though, are high-society women much like herself. You can’t really claim to love and understand black people unless you’ve lived among the worst of them.)
	For that matter, having worked construction for years, when you’re around a white person who genuinely hates black people, you can feel it. They can fake it all they want, if they have to, but somehow, you know. I do, anyway. The rest of us all just cut up and say whatever we want, with no real offense taken. There’s a big difference, and I think that distinction is lost today. 
	Anyway, that might not be my final discourse on the subject. (It’s almost like a theme is developing… - Janice.)
	After lunch had settled a bit, though, Aunt Til brought me two pills and a glass of water. Sominex. Which is just some over-the-counter stuff, but she suggested I sleep during the day, and leave in the evening. I had never driven though the southwest, and that turned out to be some damn good advice. 
	When I woke up that afternoon, she had another set of maps and directions laid out on the table for me. She had put the presents by the door, along with some sandwiches she had made for me. I brought my stuff out to the living room with everything else, and it was a lot more than I had came there with. When we sat down to go over the route, she had some pretty specific instructions.
	“When you get to El Paso, you are to go to this auto shop. When you get there, call me so I know you’re okay. They’re friends of mine, and they’ll check your car out.”
	The way she explained it, it was harsh driving conditions, and more than half of my trip would be through Texas. Those western states are no joke when it comes to heat, and west Texas is just as bad. It all sounded pretty reasonable, and just underlined her concern for my well-being. That I would be driving at night was something that escaped me, at the time. I didn’t want anything to happen to my ride anyway, and the least I could do was accept her hospitality.
	We went over motel stops along the way. Speed limits. The importance of not pushing yourself when you get too tired. She knew when you should fill the gas tank all the way up for those long stretches of nothing that exist along the way. In short, she had thought of just about everything, instead of just letting me set out on my own, ignorant to what the trip would entail. Classic Aunt Til.
	Then we loaded all my stuff into the trunk. The two presents I was to take home, all my clothes, my own little library of a few books I had acquired. It ended up taking a lot of the space not occupied by the spare tire. The lunch went on the seat by me, along with a bunch of water. When we went back inside, she brought me a big box of cassettes. 
	“I like my vinyl more, for some reason,” she told me. But I think she was just being sweet and making excuses. “It’ll help you from getting bored. You’ll probably have time to listen to all of them, and I recommend you do so. We should always strive to expand our own horizons. No one else is going to do it for us, Clarence.”
	Aunt Til was always on some deep shit. 
	It was so fucking hard to say goodbye. Way harder than leaving my mother was, for sure. I loved that woman until the day she died, which thankfully wasn’t for many years. I got to see her on her farm in Alabama, and it was a beautiful thing, man. She never remarried or anything like that, but she was so at peace when she was there, even more so than when she was in L.A. It was like she was there with the man she had loved so dearly, even though his presence wasn’t physical. I got to see Maxxy go off to college. Don’t get all weepy like I did. This ain’t the end for her, although I probably don’t have a lot more to say about her. I do wish she was alive to read this, though.
	Imagine that. Me, with a book of my own. I can’t wait to tell Maxine when it’s published. All she’s written so far that I know of are research papers. Which is nothing to sneeze at. But I think we all expected that from her. Her mother was an astounding influence, and she raised an incredible daughter.
	Aunt Til made it easy on me. She hugged me tight for a long time, kissed me on the cheek, and said, “Get your ass on the road. You’ve got almost three days of driving ahead of you.”
	Maxxy, though… She jumped up on me and hugged me so tight. She kissed my face all over, which was something that she had never done before. “I love you, you big, stupid, scungelli-head,” she told me. This time, she cried a little bit, which was also a first. I couldn’t help but mingle a few tears of my own with hers.
	Instead of hanging outside and making things harder for all of us, they waved goodbye. Maxxy said, “Don’t forget to write! Use the cypher!”, and then they closed the door. I just sat there for a second and composed myself. When I finally put the car in gear, she ran back out and came to the window. “You forgot something, cousin…”
	She slid me the pistol, a souvenir of our little adventure so many months earlier. “If you want peace, you must prepare for war…”
	Goddamnit, Maxxy. She kissed me again, on the lips, this time. Since I don’t really care what you think, I’ll say it. It was a different sort of kiss. She was my cousin, she was a little girl, and it was brief. But it was a different sort of kiss.
	“Don’t shoot anyone I wouldn’t shoot,” she said, and ran back inside. I think she was probably crying again and didn’t want me to see it. I was, too. Thinking about it, that might have been the last time I ever cried, in fact.
	Now I was driving off with a gun in my lap. Which is really the most natural thing in the world, in L.A. But the first chance I got, I stopped and put that shit in the trunk, under the spare tire. When I did, I noticed there were four packages. One for my mother, one for my aunt, one that had both their names on it, and another for me. I couldn’t help but open it.
	It was ten one-hundred-dollar bills, and a Rolex. 
	“This was my husband’s,” the note from Til said. “Wear it with pride.”
	I still have that watch on me to this day.

Chapter 21 – Welcome Home

	It was still a few hours before dusk. I dealt with the usual L.A. traffic bullshit some more, which really helped me later in the Houston area. Houston might be a little more balls-out, because the traffic there actually moves, and Texas don’t give a fuck about speed limits. I hit the state line after dark. It got a little spooky. I was alone on my own for the first time, really. Me and the open road, facing the unknown. 
I had youthful confidence, but when you start seein’ signs sayin’ “Death Valley”, it’s hard not to think about the Manson family. I don’t think a lot of people today understand the significance all that carried with it at the time. Sort of like when King and JFK were shot for the generation before me.
Aunt Til really knew what she was doing with the cassettes. That’s what made everything cool. I started with Curtis Mayfield, and was able to enjoy Jimi Hendrix for the first time. That dude was a really inspiring character. I could probably write a book on that man. (You should. – Janice.) The tape after ‘Smash Hits’ was the Undisputed Truth’s ‘Cosmic Truth’. It’s some obscure Hendrix-inspired stuff that was the perfect album to hear next. The miles between me and L.A. were starting to add up. By the time I had put on Parliament-Funkadelic, I was making good time, and enjoying myself, besides.
Now most people don’t really believe in fate. Things that aren’t just coincidences but small miracles. Mystical shit. Most people are blind to the magic of life. Some claim to believe in it, but until you experience it first-hand, it’s not real to you. The next tape I pulled out of the case was Hotel California by The Eagles. Aunt Til had taped a thin joint to it. Holy shit. That’s not the magical part, though it was some of it. The people who got me out of prison and did so much for me had made it their theme album. In other words, it later became a huge part of my life. 
I pushed in the lighter, and when it popped out, I fired it up immediately. It only made sense to listen to the tape it was attached to. I can’t tell if it wasn’t an intentional pairing or not, and I didn’t know the bigger significance at the time. “On a dark desert highway / Cool wind in my hair “ made the hair on my arms stand up. I got chills. It’s hard to explain. The timing, the trip, the lyrics, the whole situation all added up to something much bigger. Better yet, later in life, I learned that the line “Warm smell of colitas / Rising up through the air” uses a made-up flower name, and it was actually intended to mean weed. So, there were even more parallels going on than I even knew about at the time. 
I was already familiar with Peter Tosh and Bob Marley from my time with Til and Maxxy,  and the reggae rhythm of the title song also resonated with me. I still don’t know what it’s about, but I love it. I have had discussions about it with various people, and their opinions have ranged from stardom and fame (Janique), The Church of Satan (Chris), to something called Simulation Theory (A dude I know named Leo). They all make good points. Except Leo. I have no idea what he’s talking about a lot of the time. He’s definitely brilliant though. 
I made good time that first night. ‘Life in the Fast Lane’ did make me drive too fast, so I had to slow down twice in only four minutes. The second time I did, I passed a cop hiding behind a billboard, and it’s a good thing I had. I wouldn’t have wanted to face an Arizona cop at night while stoned. Not at that age, anyway. The last tape of the night was a guy named Sun Ra and his Arkestra. I was never a fan of horns, big bands, stuff like that, but this guy was a major head. Probably right up there with Hendrix himself. He’s a little obscure, but check him out sometime. Maybe when you’re out driving beneath the stars of a clear night sky, and are a little high. I was not only in a bubble, but with my head in the clouds.
It was almost 5 a.m. I decided to stop, based on Aunt Til’s route. I got a motel room and slept my ass off until that afternoon. Then I found a little diner after I left and got a chicken fried steak with mashed potatoes for dinner, missing Til’s cooking already. After that, I fueled up, got snacks and water, and set out on the second night of my journey.
I only wished I had more weed. Though it was a good thing I didn’t. Somewhere in the middle of New Mexico I got pulled over. I did the things Aunt Til had taught me. Got all my paperwork together, then put my hands on the wheel, with the ignition off. The cop was relatively cool. I hadn’t been going very fast, so I wasn’t sure what the deal was. When he asked me if I was carrying any illegal drugs, I got a little shook. Then he told me to get out of the car while he searched it. I didn’t even have a roach but still, it was unnerving. My heart really started racing when he told me to open the trunk. My gun was in there. But when he looked and saw my clothes, shoes, books, and the presents, he let out a laugh and told me to have a safe trip. Cops can be a weird blend of decent and reprehensible, and it’s almost a coin-toss at times as to how they will treat you. 
He drove off ahead of me, and I had to collect my thoughts. I think it was the presents that made him decide I wasn’t a criminal. I made one last glance at them before I closed the trunk to note that he didn’t take anything. My mood was a little blown, just like the last time, and every time dealing with a cop. But some War and Sly and the Family Stone in the tape deck slowly took away the edge. I pushed on all the way to El Paso before I stopped. Aunt Til had made arrangements for a motel close to the shop where I was to get the car checked out and call from, so I checked in and got some rest. 
In the morning, though, well, evening. However that works. I went out to the trunk and got some clean clothes before I showered. I swear to god one of the presents was gone. I looked all over to be sure. It definitely wasn’t in there. It didn’t make any sense, but I couldn’t do shit about shit anyway, so I let it go. It was the big one, too. The one intended for my aunt and mother both. Between that and getting pulled over, my comfortable life was starting to show signs of its first visible cracks.
I got a late lunch, gas, and my usual array of road food and drinks. It was probably around seven o’clock before I drove the few blocks from the motel to the shop. Aunt Til assured me the time I got there didn’t matter. Sure enough, there were people waiting, although not any other customers. Here’s the funny thing, they were Vietnamese. I don’t know why, stereotypes or even my own limited personal experience, but my time at the other mechanic shop sort of had me expecting a black-owned business. It kind of felt the same as if I had walked into a Hibachi place and saw Black Belt Jones serving up fried rice. Just slightly surreal. That desert driving hypnosis makes everything weird.
They were decent people, of course. They greeted me politely, and brought me into their office to call Aunt Til while they took the car into the bay. We had a good talk, and I didn’t even hear my voice crack but once or twice. Just talking about Aunt TIl or thinking about her affects me on a deep emotional level. I assured her things were going well, thanked her for all the help, and promised to call again from the house.
The car was done only a few minutes later. They said they had checked the oil, topped off the radiator with coolant, and aired up the tires, but it was otherwise fine. I tried to pay them, tip them, anything, but they weren’t having it. “Your aunt’s good family friend,” the owner said. “Tell her Phuc say hello.” I about died laughing inside. I managed to hold it until I got up the street, and then just let loose. It was the funniest thing I had heard in days. Things were kind of grim inside the car most of the trip. Just serious. It’s like your body becomes a part of the vehicle, and it in turn becomes your shell.
My longest night of driving was in Texas. It’s hard to believe, but somehow, the majority of your trip is there. On the map, it looks like about half. But the way Aunt Til had planned it, I drove extra in the other states so I would only have one long leg of the trip left.
I got into deep driving mode once again and only had to stop twice to go to the bathroom, getting another tank of gas during one of them. I had finally reached the end of the case of cassettes, so I started playing the ones I had enjoyed the most. Everything felt a little more like home, the closer I got. San Antonio area was comforting. I had been there before. When I hit Katy, it was like reaching the suburbs on the far outskirts of home.
	My mom and aunt had gotten a house in Channelview, which is a nice, quiet place populated mostly by tradesmen. Deer Park was the nearby town where the industrial hiring offices were, all in one little strip mall. But the drive was going to take me right by fifth ward. That’s when I did a pretty stupid thing. Or things. I decided my tired, wigged-out from near sensory deprivation-ass, needed to drive my fly car down the strip in my old neighborhood. 
	Not only was that dumb for obvious reasons, but it also took me off script. Instead of Aunt Til’s carefully written instructions and annotated maps, I only had a gas station foldout of the area that I had stopped and gotten. I’m not sure if this part is smarter or dumber than the rest: I also got my gun out. I’m not entirely sure what I was thinking, at the time. I didn’t have enemies there. What I did have, though, was what had to be the freshest ride in the whole state. I wanted to show it off, but I damn sure intended on keeping it.
	I made my way sort of clumsily down to the ward. I felt like a fish out of water, somehow. The streets were strange after learning to drive out west. It was a foreign land to me, now. L.A. was gritty, but it was a bright, sun-washed, up-front sort of funk. Houston looked dark, and wet, and gloomy. You could feel your consciousness adjust to the new vibes. It was the sort of grim I had never experienced in California. 
I think all the tall buildings in the area had something to do with it all. Some places never really saw the light. So to speak. Out west, we got the full dawn and dusk, and the whole day’s sun. I felt I had been taken from my warm, sheltered life and plunged into shadow. Even when I finally got to the streets I grew up in, it was a struggle to navigate. I knew everything from being on foot, and had to adjust. That was when I learned the bigger truth about the boulevard people rolled up and down on through my neighborhood. The two ends where people turned around were both pick up/drop off spots for hoes. I saw two or three big asses covered with stretchy dresses, and my dick stirred a little. 
It’s funny how when one is out of your life, you already start looking ahead. I have learned at this stage, it’s imperative you stop looking at some point. When you find the right one, shut it down. Keep her by your side until death do you part. The right woman is going to give you everything you need, anyway. That’s what helps make her the right woman. Find you one that you just want to spend years with alone, twenty-four hours a day. Anything less, and it’s not going to work out forever. I mean, it’s just some advice. You do what you want. 
	Chances are, if you love one woman deeply enough, and let her know she is your sole focus in life, you will probably be overwhelmed by the closeness you get as a result. A comfortable, secure woman is capable of things no whore would comfortably, willingly do. Instead of feeling ashamed of herself, she’ll feel pride in her every act. This is a pretty heavy ideal to live up to. Your wife, your number one, your fiancée, whoever she is, you had better be the person she deserves, and has dreamed about. Don’t fuck with their feelings. I’m not sure younger people can pull it off as easily as people who have learned these things the hard way. 
	Now, the pimp side of this is to fake everything I just talked about. That is the difference between pimps and regular people. They know how to push exactly the same buttons. But they do it from behind a pane of glass. It’s all calculated and fake. The game he runs on you will be the exact same game he ran on the previous one, and the next one. Because it works. You would think women could see through the insincerity, feel it, somehow. 
	Being a daddy means several things, fatherhood aside. You can either be the caring, concerned male figure in her life, who keeps her on track, provides love and discipline in lavish proportions, and become the very ideal of fatherhood (with a bonus freaky component that just makes it all the more satisfying), or you can manipulate weak minds who are already on some sort of self-destructive path and put them to work for your own gain. One variety tends to favor a reward system more heavily. Pimping always ends up being a punishment-oriented approach.
	The things I had learned about pimping from my studies mostly all indicated that the first thing you should do with a new trick, after fucking the shit out of her, is to put her in the closet and beat her ass mercilessly with a coat hanger. It’s a life or death sort of game to be playing, and there’s no room for half-stepping. Obedience is rule one. Except for that cat David. I didn’t recall anything about him beating any of his bitches. They were free to come and go as they pleased. Once they quit working for him, new ones would step up to take their places. That approach seemed a lot more civilized, and better suited for me. I couldn’t fake my feelings if I tried. 
That’s not to say I won’t spank the shit out of a woman if she needs it. But that’s never the opening salvo like it is in pimping. There it’s used as a brainwashing technique. They’ll get severely punished just because, to keep them in line. Never knowing when you’ll be beaten, or why, can have a terrible effect on your psyche. I gravitated to those with stronger intellects. They were more intelligent, they had a capacity for love, and the maturity to rationalize things. Women like that are the sort who taught me how to discipline them properly, and not the other way around. The best ones acted out often to insure they were treated the way they needed to be, at times. It’s a whole different, beautiful thing.
A pimp with the soul of a poet. That makes sense, now. To see both the ugliness and beauty of pimpin’, and to set out of put your own stamp upon the art.
I rolled down the strip to the other end, where I saw the other dope spot. Because any hoe spot is also a dope spot, by default. I made the loop and headed back the other way again, ready to go home and go to bed. It wasn’t anywhere like triumphant as I had hoped it would be. But two blocks up the turnaround there were three tricks standing outside of a gold Coupe Deville. Ragtop down, this year’s model with the spare tire mounted on the back. He was leaning over on the passenger side, no doubt collecting money and making sure they were working hard enough.
The hottest of the three lost her mind when she saw me and that car. “Hey, Daddy” came out of her mouth spontaneously. That made me slow down so I could get a good eyeful. That motherfuckin’ pimp was out of that car so fast, I was awestruck. Didn’t just slap the bitch, neither. Cold punched girl in her jaw. She was laid out. When he drew his pistol on me next, I was caught off-guard just like she was.
The other two tricks screamed and ran off. You know this motherfucker shot at me? I think he hadn’t had a lot of experience with things, because he seemed as surprised as I was. Blew out both side windows with a single shot when I was right in front of him. The bullet probably passed no more than six inches from my nose. I slammed on the brakes. But then he froze for a few seconds after he pulled the trigger. And had done fucked up. I remembered my gun, where it was, and had it aimed before he could raise his arm back up. I extended it out the window and caught him in his shoulder. 
Son. That fucking thing put a hole in him something fierce. It jerked his body around in a semi-circle, and then he just kept going down. I don’t know if he even lived or not. I do know if I had aimed for his chest directly, there’s no way he would have survived. I should have maybe read the papers. By then, I was in south Houston, far from the ward, with no real desire to go back. At least until the incident was forgotten about. I even had to fake an alibi in my head. I was nowhere near Fifth Ward, and was still en route from El Paso. Where they could even corroborate my departure time if need be. Or give a more favorable timeline, even.
I already had a use for Maxxy’s cipher.
When I finally got home, my mother and aunt came out to greet me. After a big round of hugs, which felt a lot warmer and more sincere than I remembered them, mom said, “Did you have trouble, baby?” That was all she ever said about the car or windows both. Instead, they insisted I unload everything and go to sleep. My life had almost literally been shattered, but we could catch up in the morning. I grabbed a handful of clothes, and I shit you not, there were three presents in there. They grabbed them, my shoes, and my books, and I headed inside my new home. It had a lot of live up to, because it would forever be compared to Aunt Til’s.
 I didn’t even wait to see them open them, and just went straight to sleep. It was a new room with my old bed, and that suited me just fine. I had enough adventures for the time being.

Chapter 22 – Up for the Downstroke

	When I woke up, the first things I thought were that I hadn’t called Aunt Til, and that she was moving weight with the Vietnamese. That is a lot to open your eyes to. Now, I am no dry snitch. Rest assured, this document, rough appearance aside (Hey! – Janice.), has been gone over extensively by a team of very good lawyers. Names, nationalities, races, genders might all have been changed to protect the innocent, you don’t know. Plus, the statute of limitations is a thing. Many of the people involved aren’t even around anymore. For that matter, I might have copped to one murder in this book already. Let’s keep that to ourselves, shall we? (Large eyeroll. – Janice.)
	But it was the only thing that made sense. Her treatment at the restaurant, for starters. It had bugged me slightly ever since. The start of the mystery of Aunt Til. But it was the close association with the Nguyen family that took that tiny irritant and provided me with this now pearl of wisdom. I had thought maybe their close but standoffish behavior meant Aunt Til was sleeping with Hue’s father. In fact, I think it was both. His wife’s well-hidden dislike for us didn’t feel primarily racial. That was also part of it, though, and maybe difficult to separate entirely. I think she knew or suspected.
	But it was the presents and the auto shop that tied it all together. Relatives at the midway point between the two worlds. They had somehow been given a trunk key, took the package while I slept, and then replaced it. The only question that exists in my mind is as to what exactly got moved around. Most logically, it was two kilos of coke, swapped out in El Paso for cash. When you look at everything as a whole, it’s the only thing that makes sense.
	Now, part of me felt betrayed by Aunt Til, for sure. How close did I come to having my young life ruined, and never even known I was at risk? The bigger, deeper part of me, though, felt admiration and pride. I respected that she was doing what she had to do to make shit happen in this world. My understanding of Aunt Til was complete. She was a hustler supreme, and didn’t even get her hands dirty. That she trusted my abilities to that degree shows the utmost confidence. We were all risking a lot. Love and family are the only things that make such things worthwhile. Gambling your life away just to increase your stack means you can lose it all for nothing.
	It also explained more fully Maxxy and Aunt Til’s small arsenal, which was a pretty well-regulated militia, even by L.A. standards. The guns weren’t just in case of neighborhood issues. They were both drilled on worst case scenarios. All I know is that those guns looked very natural in their hands.
	My mother and aunt, though. As far as they knew, I had my windows shot out trying to deliver them a package, and they barely acknowledged it. I decided I would take the risk of the shooting on my own, armed with this new information. No need to concern Aunt Til unnecessarily. I also knew I would play entirely dumb with my mother and aunt, and see what came of it all. Because I wasn’t going to be used like that a second time.
	I dressed and shuffled out in my socks to check out the new place. It was honestly even nicer than Aunt Til’s house. It was much newer, for one thing. It didn’t have that lived-in quality that made hers so comfortable, but it was a huge improvement over the old apartment. But I walked out into an empty kitchen. I worked out the coffee pot situation and got that going. Then I drank some orange juice, which was nice, and unexpected.  
	I settled on buttered toast. When the coffee was ready, I just sat there at the little breakfast bar and thought about shit. I was in a little bit of a trance. A daze. I had been through a wildly life-changing few days. I didn’t even have anyone to share the experience with. Maxxy was great for that sort of thing. At that moment, I missed her intensely.
	That bullet passing through my windows completely summed up my present state. My life had been blown apart in an instant. The pieces that remained weren’t worth salvaging. Everything I knew had changed. It was already the second time in my early youth that I decided that beatdowns and shootouts weren’t for me.
	I needed to get my tools and get back to work. But before I could do that, I had to deal with my windows. This was a pain, because it involved a map, the yellow pages, and what felt like an hour on the phone. By then I was full of coffee, and set out to get to the shop, where they said they could have me out that day if I could wait. I had the sense to at least bring a book with me. 
	I didn’t have to wait but an hour before they started installing them. In the meantime, someone vacuumed all the damn glass out and got everything ready. They even took the panels off the inside and got all the glass out of the doors. Meanwhile, I’m reading Maxxy’s cipher book, the thick one, and I am falling asleep. I mean, it was interesting. But I was hot, and tired, and it was long-winded as hell. I eventually just closed it, and then my eyes.
	I fully dozed off, chin on my chest, for a long while. But when I opened my eyes, they were closing the doors. It was damn near two hundred dollars, but I felt a part of myself had been restored. Plus, I was a little more out of danger about the shooting. Heads turned when they saw me coming, and that was a good feeling. Flies in the face of my life philosophy, but that’s what being a kid is. Contradictions. 
	Mom and auntie were home when I got back. I peeked in the garage and saw an innocuous minivan. A prudent choice. Lowkey, housewife shit. All it needed was a “My Child Is An Honor Student At…” bumper sticker. 
	Inside, mom asked where I had been, and I told her. Confirming my suspicions, to me, she reached in her purse and handed me a hundred-dollar bill. It also said a lot that she didn’t ask how much it was, or offer more. But, cool. It felt like a partnership of a sort, already. I didn’t want any part of anything criminal, but I was now official security, regardless. I took that shit seriously.
	 I decided to take the day to get used to my new place. The next role I saw that I needed to take on was cook. There was a nice assortment of groceries, though, and that helped a lot. Just being around Til had prepared me for this day. I did everything the way she would have. I got all my ingredients out, then my pots and pans.
	I was chopping onions and garlic, slicing mushrooms. Pretty soon I had seasoned ground beef sizzling in a pan, and the smell was maddening. The water was boiling, and after I had drained some of the fat from the skillet, I added two jars of sauce. I even knew enough to add a little sugar to take some of the tang out of it.
	It wasn’t much longer than twenty minutes later when I sat down to eat, and had even cleaned everything up while I waited for the noodles to cook. The smell was enough to bring both of them out of their rooms.
	“Damn it, boy. Did you go to culinary school when you was out there?” my aunt asked.
	They served up their plates, and it did me good to see them eat something I had cooked. Mom poured us all milk, and the only thing we really lacked was garlic bread and sprinkle cheese. Next time, I swore. It was a pretty chill atmosphere, and not nearly so far removed from what I had grown accustomed to out west. There were no books or high-minded discussions, but it was calm and quiet. I guess they had also had enough of the wild life themselves for a while.
	They both still worked, which is also an important lesson. Always have a cover job, and a cover story. You might think you’re a champ for not needing any extra income, but it marks you as a potential target. No one pays attention to the working men and women, going about their boring routines. Mini vans and jobs are more baller than flashy rides and leisure, when you get down to it. It’s not just about making the money, but keeping it. 
	“What are your plans now?” Mom asked. “Til told me you got your G.E.D. That’s really good.”
	“Thank you. I think I’m ready to go back to construction.”
	“Go back? Til said you were learning to be a mechanic.”
	“I’m a welder, mom. And a pipefitter.”
	“Well, get your ass to welding, then. We’ve got a house to pay off.”
	The next day I went to see George, but he wasn’t in. I used the dolly and gathered all my tools. I needed a paying job. I was sure he would understand, and agree. The damn box didn’t let the trunk close. I ended up taking all the tools out and putting them in the car first, and just tied the trunk shut until I got home. I had intended on going see Yolanda, but having my tools up for grabs in the back of an open vehicle held no appeal for me. I already didn’t like the looks the car was drawing. 
	I resolved to come back the next day and deal with them both. Hopefully Yo-Yo was waiting patiently for me, and George had a good new story about his wife. I had to come to understand that he talked a lot of shit about her, but he loved her dearly. 
	At the house, I had to move the now empty box, put it in the garage, and then unload all the tools into it. Then I would have to repeat this process again if I got hired on somewhere. Already, my car was feeling a little impractical. If I got put on at good pay, I decided I would eventually need a truck.
	I caught up with George on the phone later that evening when I knew he would be home, extra beer on the way or not. He told me not to worry about coming see him, and to enjoy the tools. He was genuinely enthusiastic about my life, and supportive. It was nice having a male in that role for a change. He also gave me the number of a local contractor and said they would be expecting a call from me. I was set. Life, even pimping, is about networking. Failure to do so is failure to thrive. 
	That left only Yolanda on my short list of things to deal with. I knew her schedule, which seemed to mean she was always home. I dressed in my work clothes when I went over the next morning. I even brought a little tool bag. Habit, I guess. 
	She had a real look of surprise on her face when she opened the door. Then she hesitated for a moment and pulled me in by the wrist. 
	“Shit, I didn’t think I’d ever see you again,” she told me. A funny way to say hello.
	“I told you I’d be back. I didn’t know when is all.”
	“They all say they’ll be back.”
	What happened next initially struck me as enthusiasm. Yo-Yo got on her knees right there at the door. At some point during the next few minutes, I noticed the pair of large tennis shoes along the wall. At that point, she was out of her pants, bent over, facing the door.
	It didn’t take me long.
	Afterwards, she said, “Welcome back, Daddy,” as she kissed me, then got dressed again. 
	“I have a man, though. I can’t keep doing this.”
	Part of me was disappointed, of course. Another was glad I hadn’t settled on her unfaithful ass as an actual girlfriend. If she did it to him, she would do it to me. Even though I was flattered, in this case.
	“Oh,” I said.
	She scooted me out the door, kissing my cheek as I went by. 
“Try not to come more than once a week. Wear that, bring tools. After nine on a weekday, before two.” 
	Then the door closed behind me. Shit.
	I’d like to say I never went back. But I’d be lying.

Chapter 23 – Working Man

	My mission had dovetailed once again. Get a job, and communicate with Aunt Til. Because the more I thought about it, the more incensed I got. Primarily because it seemed hypocritical to her character. Of the things I was faced with, getting hired on doing construction seemed the far easier of the two.
	As instructed by George, I showed up dressed for work, toolbox tied down in the trunk, and knocked on the door of the construction trailer.
	“Yeah.”
	“I’m, uh, Clarence Jackson. My friend George told me to come talk to you,” I said through the opened door.
	“Right, right. Come in.”
	The project superintendent was a big, brick-headed white guy with big rolls of fat down the back of his neck. Looking at him, you’d never suspect he held a wealth of construction knowledge inside. He kind of stood up to shake my hand, then I settled into the chair opposite him. 
	“So, I hear good things about you. Prompt, capable. Good work ethic.”
	“Thank you, sir.”
	“Don’t thank me. Thank old George and his ball-busting wife.”
	I laughed.
	“Well, he says you’re good at all-around construction work, plus you weld and do piping.”
	“Yes, sir.”
	“I can put you on full time at nine dollars an hour. If things work out, we can talk about making it ten.”
	“Yes, sir. Thank you.”
	“If you want, start today. I’ll pay you since the start of the interview. I could really use a right-hand man on this one. Just unload your box and come back and see me.”
	It was that easy. Which is one reason I am a strong proponent of networking. Construction work is also one of reputation, and I appreciate that immensely. It’s largely a meritocracy. As I went to my car, I spied a dolly off to the side of the trailer, and unloaded my box onto it, then took all my tools out of the trunk, arranging them carefully. I was getting better at dealing with it all, and finished it out with my stinger, gloves, and hood on top. I was even able to fully close it on the first try, and put my lock on it.
	I pulled the dolly to what looked like a suitably out of the way location, and unloaded next to a column. Then I put it back and got my chain. Once I had my boxed chained up with another matching lock, I poked my head into the construction office again.
	“Ready,” I said.
	He handed me a hard hat and gloves.
	“Ward,” he told me. “Let’s take a walk.”
	We headed under the red steel structure that was part of the add-on the hospital was undergoing. 
	“We don’t have any welding happening at the moment. As the steel goes, up, there will be endless fixes and modifications you’ll be doing.”
	He walked me over to a small shed with a combination lock.
	“’7-5-3’ is the combination.”
	I unlocked it, and it was full of brooms and shovels.
	“Grab a digging shovel and a flat one and come see.”
	He headed off toward a series of two-by-four forms, and I dug through the equipment to get what I needed. I definitely hadn’t signed on for this. I hadn’t not signed on for it, of course. But it’s really not how I hoped my first day on the job would be.
	When I caught up with him, he pointed to a pink string that was stretched tight from one end of the forms to the other.
	“These forms all have two inches of clearance right now. What we need is three. Get your tape, and do your best to lower these beds down evenly.”
	“Yes, sir,” I said. I was disappointed, but I was also making good money. Plus, it was my first construction job, and I would be welding. I still wasn’t even eighteen yet. Now, in retrospect, I can tell you that being Ward’s right-hand man, such as it was, started out as a curse, and ended up being a huge blessing. I was taken through almost every stage of a commercial renovation job, and managed to learn multiple new things every day.
	But that first day was bullshit. Not because of the work involved, which was bad enough, but because it involved fixing someone else’s mistake. One thing I quickly picked up was that was largely what the general contractor did, made everything work with everything else. All we did was fix mistakes, it seemed like. I looked at my hood and gloves mournfully as I got my tape measure out of my toolbox.
	Leveling the forms was just a problem to be solved. But let me tell you, that shit is back-breaking by the end of the day. I started loading dirt into a wheelbarrow that had been chained to the toolshed, and by the time the lunch whistle blew, I had two entire forms re-leveled. I had even found a tamper that I used to give everything a solid footing.
	As I came back from my car with my lunchbox to find a place to sit down, Ward called me into his office.
	“Sit down and eat in here, kid. It’s much cooler.”
	“Thanks.” 
	I pulled up my chair, and we both ate sandwiches in silence. But after we were done, Ward showed me where they were in the project, what would be happening, and what our role would be. This went on for a good forty-five minutes, by the end of which, I felt like something of an expert on things. It was not only a good gesture on his part, but it really involved me in the job, and prepared me for what was coming. I felt like a junior partner.
	Then I went back to my shovel.
	The renovation was really just kicking off, so that day as I worked, I watched the crane being delivered, site work being done with a bulldozer, and people come in and out of the construction office. Near the end of the day, a Mexican concrete guy showed up. He walked over to one of my forms with a tape, knelt down, and checked the form height. Meeting his approval, he shot me a thumbs up. To my knowledge, nothing else had to be done to the forms after I walked away from them.
	I was down to the last quarter of the fourth one of the day when Ward called me off.
	“Forget it, kid. It’s Chinatown. Get it in the morning. They won’t be here to do the rod until 8am anyway.”
	So, I put my tools up for the day, and made sure everything was locked.
	“See you at six,” he said as he went to his truck.
	I nodded, and shot out right behind him. Back at home, I was tired, but relatively happy. 
	I showered and ate, and found I still had a fair amount of time before I needed to go to sleep. I wrote out what I wanted to ask Aunt Til, and then started thumbing through the novel Maxxy had elected to use as our cipher key. It was monstrously thick. It was only later on that I realized she did a number on me. Just using it as a reference forced me to become very familiar with the contents. She caused me to become something of an expert about it, through a backdoor method. I wouldn’t hesitate to suggest that I am probably one of the leading black scholars on the subject of Atlas Shrugged, which is a pretty weird position to be in.
	I only got partway through the letter that night. Even then, I had to discard some words and language, and eliminate some parts altogether. This simple note ended up taking three nights of effort. In the meantime, work continued on much as it had started: I did a series of menial but important tasks. Aunt Til’s letter didn’t even go into the mailbox until Saturday.
	All the next week, I watched people and equipment arrive on the jobsite, and I waited for a reply from Aunt Til. Things began to get so hectic, it became almost a full-time job just directing people and equipment around the area. No matter how crazy things got, Ward was always the same, unaffected by whatever went on. So, I took my cue from him. Otherwise, I would have gotten burned out. All I could do was try and minimize my own mistakes while I dealt with everyone else’s.
	Meanwhile actual construction work was beginning, and that need my attention constantly as well. To give you an idea of how crazy things are in construction, the pads we had poured earlier were temporary, for staging equipment and long-term toolbox storage. Otherwise, everything else was in the mud.  They were slated for demolition only three months after they were poured. By the end of that week, I had started wishing there were two of me.
	That weekend, all I did was lay up. I don’t believe most people understand unless they’ve done serious physical labor day-in and day-out for a while. What feels best is just…not moving. Meanwhile, my bank account was getting the double boost of me having a nice income while also being too tired to enjoy any of it. It would be payday again before I knew it. One thing I did enjoy about the job was the pace. There was always stuff going on, always stuff to be done. You rushed from one task to the next, handled it as best you could in hurry, and went on about your business. As a consequence, I spent my off hours watching tv or reading. Anything that didn’t involve walking.
	Monday, though, two significant events happened. When I arrived at the shack, there were four cats standing around outside. I gave them the nod and went inside to see what was up. 
	“Congrats, kid. You made it. I threw all the shitwork I could at you, and you handled it all well. The work you did on coordinating all the contractors was invaluable. I got us way ahead on planning, instead of playing parking director.”
	“Well, cool. Thanks. What does that mean?”
	“For me, it means smooth sailing on this renovation. As smooth as can be expected. For you, it means a raise. But here’s the catch. The welding is starting. On the other hand, I can use you as the labor foreman. The welding pay is $10, but foreman is $11.”
	I don’t know what came over me, but I said one of the smoothest things I’ve ever said in my life. “Give me $12 and I’ll do both.”
	His brow furrowed, and I could see him turning the thought over in his head. $12 was more than he had intended paying me. But in reality, he would be saving $9 an hour.
	“Do you think you could pull it off? You know how crazy it gets out there.”
	“I *know* I can pull it off. You keep me lined out, I keep them lined out, and the welding gets done.”
	“Then put ‘em to work. Come back and I’ll give you the layout of the clips you’ll be welding in first.”
	I barely contained my elation, instead only giving Ward a nod as I headed out for my first stint as labor foreman. In the time it took me to turn around and take a few steps, I was stricken with near terror for a moment. Then I pushed through the door into the sunlight and a transformation swept over me.	
	“What’s up, motherfuckers? I’m Clarence. I run this shitshow, as far as you’re fucking concerned. If anyone has a problem with me, bring it to my motherfucking face. Otherwise, you’re to do as you’re told, or I’ll shitcan you, straight up. Am I clear?”
	Four pairs of eyes did their best to avoid me, and I got a few grumbling words of acknowledgment. I took them to the toolshed and unlocked everything.
	“All tools are kept here, and locked up at the end of the day. I’m not trying to replace shit you motherfuckers lose.”
	Then I led them around the boundaries of the jobsite. “I need this whole area kept clean. Trashcans get close to full, empty them. Use the construction dumpsters for everything. Keep materials on pallets out of the mud. Make sure the walk paths are always free of obstructions.”
	We passed by the hospital entrance. “Off-limits. Until the scope of our work changes, we stay outside. Get caught inside, I’ll have to fire you.”
	Finally, I ended my tour at a huge pile of dirt. It was really something that we were going to use the backhoe for, but hadn’t got around to it yet, the operator being otherwise busy. Instead, it was going to be my proving ground. 
	“This pile needs to be hauled off. So, keep the site clean and organized, and move this dirt. Dump it behind the forty-footer over there. Y’all got it?”
	My surly crew of workers, all at least slightly older than I was, nodded.
	“A’ight. I got shit to do.”
	With that, I made my exit, having pulled it off pretty well for a first attempt at being a construction foreman. Inside, I said, “What you got for me, boss?”
	“In the seacan, there are forty clips with holes in them. They’re hanger points for the ductwork. I want them along the outside edges of the awning, spaced out every eight feet. Go put your hands on them, and then check out the work. You can get yourself set up today and start welding tomorrow.”
	“I’m on it,” I said, and went to check the storage container. As I did, I nonchalantly began observing the progress on the pile of dirt I had ordered moved. One laborer was off picking up trash, one was both loading the wheelbarrow and dumping it, while another shoveled and talked to the last, who leaned on his own shovel and smoked a Kool. I already had my leadman, and someone to make an example out of.
	I held off on saying anything. Instead, I found the clips and weighed one in my hand, contemplating it like Hamlet or some shit. At the awning, I saw what I was really up against. The steel was thirty feet off the ground. The welding machine was on the opposite end of the jobsite. I got with the operator to have him get off the grading box and come move the rig, but instead, he just handed me the keys to the lull. 
	So, a lull is a forklift. But it’s not like the cute little warehouse ones you see. It sits on giant tires, and can lift several tons three stories in the air. It’s not a joke of a machine in any way. And someone had handed me the keys to one. 
I climbed inside and just studied it for a minute. It mostly drove like a car, but it only had forward and reverse. Even the controls for the forks were simple, and labeled. It didn’t feel like a car, though. There’s an odd underpinning of power, like a horse that just might try and get out from under you. It’s kinda hard to describe.
	I drove over to my machine and raised the forks up overhead. I hadn’t considered any sort of rigging to lift it with. When I started to get down, I realized the lull was still in gear. This time I put it in neutral and engaged the damn parking brake. Lucky for me, I knew where everything in the storage container was, having unloaded most of it myself. A few minutes later, and I was raising the forks.
	  What I didn’t care for, though, was the way the welding machine spun around when I was driving. I put the machine in park again and got down to tie a rope to the hitch on the welding trailer. At first, I considered going get someone, probably the lazier of the crew members, to come hold it steady as I drove. Then I decided I didn’t need the headache. Instead, I tied it to the front of the lull and kept tension on it with the forks. This worked at least as well as a person would have, and soon I had set my machine where I could reach two-thirds of the clips with the leads I had.
	After I parked the lull and returned the key to the operator, I looked at the daunting manlift I would need to reach the awning. I even knew where the key was hanging. But it was even more intimidating than a lull. For one thing, it was a lot more awkward, riding in the extendible basket rather than in a seat behind a steering wheel. The controls were more like joysticks.
	My time with Maxxy had galvanized my viewpoint. If I didn’t know something, I would ask. There never seemed a better time to start applying that than the present. In the office, I grabbed the keys, and said, “What else do we need done today? I’ve got them working. Also, do you have time to show me the manlift controls?”
	Ward mulled it over. “It would be a big help if all that fencing was picked up and stood over on the other side of storage. If they get that done, we’ve got footings to dig up.”
	I nodded.
	“Yep. Let’s go take her for a spin.” Ward donned his hardhat and I tried to hand him the key. “No, I’m coming as a passenger only.”
	I did get a serious crash course in the controls though. The basket part has something like eight directions of movement, and can be operated from the ground as well as the air. Driving was simpler, in theory. In fact, you had to drive the machine forward while also moving yourself in the basket around and up and down. It was a lot to do at once.
	“They have a tendency to lurch, so push forward slowly,” Ward said, after turning the speed control to its lowest setting.
	I mashed on the pedal that allowed movement, pushed the trigger forward, and the machine took off at a crawl. As we traveled, though, I saw how it would be necessary to move the basket along the way. Ward started showing me which switches would do what I needed, and we ended up adjusting things as I drove, smooth as could be. By the time I set the basket down again, I was pretty confident I could make it do whatever I needed. Ward just nodded and walked back inside.
	I went and lined the guys out on moving the fencing. There was a lot of it, and it would probably keep them busy until quitting time. All that really remained was to run my leads and power, and I’d be welding on my first legit job. 
Nothing is ever that simple, and optimism can get you burned on a construction project. Because it was only after I had hauled the heavy ass leads over, and the extension cord, that I discovered that the welding machine was low on diesel and oil both. So that took some time. Once I had everything in working order, I stretched out my leads, leaving the bulk of them on the basket, along with the extension cord.
I must have been pretty involved, because the next thing I knew, it was quitting time. In fact, I had gotten myself whistle-bit. So instead of picking up the leads, I disconnected them and put everything in the basket, sending it up with the other set of controls, before taking the key and leaving them out of reach.
It was a pretty damn good day.
The day was made even better when I got home and read Aunt Til’s note., it took me an hour to decode, but the words gave me a lot of relief from the start.
“No chemicals. Patents. And not illegal. Or even immoral. Just complicated from a job standpoint. They are designs that employees have come up with and their companies don’t jump on. It happens all the time. So I negotiate sale and payment. It has to be done in a way that doesn’t lead back to anyone. My specialty. I have clients. 
“We miss you. Hope you are doing well. Love, Til and Maximum.”
	Aunt Til was full of surprises. 
(Indeed. Only now with computers can I say with certainty that the whole of Atlas Shrugged contains only a single usage of the word ‘til’. – Janice.)

Chapter 24 - Grumblings from a Grumpy Old Construction Worker

	(Ole’ bitch-ass Janice deleted ‘bout two or three chapters about my Houston construction work days. – Tokio.) (Four. And I didn’t ‘delete’ them, I refused to even type them up.  – Janice.)
	So, anyway, there I was, doing fuckin’ construction work. (Oh, lord. – Janice.) I learned so much working on that project, and the next few after that. But the first thing I did on that first one was to pull the best kid on the labor crew aside and offer him a leadman position. In this case, it meant an under-the-table raise from me, a quarter an hour, to run the crew. I paid him in cash on Fridays, and it was money well spent. Would you believe he actually went on to one day become a construction manager himself? I eventually got him the actual raise and transferred the expense away from me. Slicker than owl shit.
	That left me free to pursue the welding/iron work/fitting end of my trade full-time. I took to blazing blunts under my hood up in the air as I worked, and could literally weld all day long if necessary. I enjoyed the eventual mastery I was working toward. I learned to use a torch really well, fit and weld stainless, MIG, TIG, wire-fed. (Tokio… You’re doing it again. – Janice.) Each new person I met seemed to have something valuable to teach me, and it was like school plus Aunt Til times ten, except it was for everyone’s favorite subject, construction work. (Sigh. – Janice.)
	But let’s not pretend all I did was work. You, as my mother once claimed herself, know what I’m about. 
	It wasn’t long after I had obtained a reasonable explanation for Aunt Til’s actions and secured my position that I started to seek out some pussy. The trouble was, other than my experience with Hue, most of my encounters had left me ill-equipped to meet anyone new. I no longer had the strange high school conduit that seemed to funnel girls onto certain boys almost automatically. Or the odd closeness one gets when interacting with the tenants of a building over time. I certainly didn’t think the church thing would happen like that twice in a row, and didn’t really care to find out.
	I went to where the pussy was guaranteed. Now, I realize, paying for it does make me a mark. On the other hand, fucking hoes is what a being a pimp is all about. So, I give myself half credit, there. Call it research. My first few encounters were back in fifth ward, where I knew the hustle, and where to find it. But that was always a tense, anxiety-filled event, which sort of countered the basic mood I was trying to achieve. If you keep your ears open, maybe ask the right question of the right person at the right time… Shit, read the arrest page of the newspapers. Most towns past a certain population have a similar spot. It wasn’t long before I had located a few that were closer, and no one possibly held a grudge for me.
	Even so, the car made me conspicuous as hell. That, and money wasn’t really a worry of mine. I was already three-fourths of a pimp, if you asked me. But in no real danger of getting arrested or shot, at the same time. And I did meet some beautiful tricks out there. Texas definitely has them. Naturally, the whole scenario, which became a routine of mine, led to a revival of my own pimping aspirations. 
But each girl was a mess, one way or another. Sometimes it took more than one visit to find that out, but it inevitably was the case. Some, I could have easily hustled away from their man, but none of them seemed worth the effort. Because as I learned later, it’s not just effort, it’s responsibility. A house full of street hookers is like a bunch of screaming, cock-sucking toddlers, drunk and on drugs. With razorblades. That’s where a strong pimp hand comes into play, because it’s the only thing those bitches really understand. The sort of shit I wanted no part of. That’s what led to my selectivity. There are far fewer problems involved if you are more discriminating from the start.
	The other side of the coin is that I lacked any sort of closeness to anyone like I had experienced with Hue. Hell, for that matter, even like I had with Til and Maxxy. That’s sort of what made Morgan inevitable, I guess. In a sense, I knew her for almost six months before I asked her out. Yet she was a complete stranger, at the same time. 
	Every Friday, Ward would cut checks. The best damn day of the week except for that Sunday you get off. Usually get off. I would head down to the bank, coveralls all sooty, smelling like I was in a damn fire, and bust one of those big eight-hundred-dollar-plus paychecks. I barely noticed the teller the first few times I went in there, I was so stricken by the amount I was now pulling down with ease. I didn’t have any real expenses, either. Moms and Auntie seemed to be just fine, and never even took money when I offered it to them, despite the initial declaration my mother had made in that regard. 
	Pretty soon, my wallet was hard to close. 
	“I could set you up with a savings account,” she told me one day. “It will only take a few minutes.”
	Our eyes met for the first time in all those visits, and there was a low-key spark. She was certainly attractive. Demure. The sincere, submissive sort of polite that I personally enjoy. 
	“Uh, okay. That sounds good.”
	She took me through the process, and I just stared at her as she looked at the forms and pointed out various items of interest. Pretty soon, I had a bank account with almost forty-eight hundred dollars in it, and it was growing rapidly. I didn’t have a damn care in the world. But I let the moment with her pass, for the time being. Instead, I set my sights on her and approached her slowly. Exquisitely.
	Every week, I would deposit my check, keep a hundred out, and charm her a little bit more. It wasn’t long before my occasionally making her smile and blush led to her smiling at my very approach. Eventually, I even had to empty the wallet back out again. To her credit, it wasn’t my money that attracted her. It was likely more the moral sort of center it represents. Or the bigger sense of providing a sheltered life to nurture offspring, if you want to get biological about shit. She wasn’t a material girl, by any means.
	Although I decided to acquire her, pimp-style, having no real feelings toward her specifically, I’m not sure she really wanted me at all, exactly. I think she sort of just went with the flow, at first. Even me asking her out for the first time was a multi-week project. The first week I asked her if she’d like to go out sometime (because fuck if you have a boyfriend or not). She giggled and blushed and looked down at her till.  The second week, I said, “So that’s a yes?”, and she giggled again. The third week, I told her, “I’ll pick you up here after work on Friday.”
	And there she was. That was it. We went out to the usual dinner and a movie, and made out just enough before I dropped her off at home to seal the deal on a next time. After that, it became a regular thing. She was a strange sort of submissive. She didn’t have a ton of personality on her own, truth be told. More of a vessel waiting to be filled. Our dates went along in the same non-committal fashion as her acceptance of me asking her out had gone. It was a matter of her just not putting up resistance in some areas.
	Which suited me and my lifestyle, more or less. It was less than ideal, I guess you could say, but still a very workable arrangement. After a year or so, she up and moved in with me. I had gotten a small apartment on my own, with my mother’s blessing. I think she and her sister were ready to embrace their new quiet lives of comfort more fully. I was probably cramping their style. After all, they were both relatively young and unencumbered themselves.
Prior to that, Morgan had still lived at home. It was by mutual agreement, but mine came after the fact. One night she showed up with more clothes than usual and just sort of… stayed. When I came home from work Saturday evening, she was still there. On Tuesday after she kept coming back, I gave her a key. 
	This, at least, was closer to what I had been looking for in life. I had the sex. I had part of the domestic bliss. She was really sweet in how she cared for me. Money is nice, but nothing warms a real man’s heart more than a girl that cooks for him, keeps him dressed and looking nice, and smooths away all of life’s rough edges with all the little touches she provides. I’m sure I would be a different beast entirely without the tempering power of feminine energy. Sounds like some new age crystal-type shit, but there it is.  
	What I didn’t have was any real passion or romance. Now, on one hand, that sort of feels funny for a man to say. On the other, I think most men would agree. Once you move past the simple act of having sex itself, you become at least as attracted to the emotional bond that’s possible. To seek out the deeper, added excitement of true togetherness. I’d like to think maybe that’s love.
	I didn’t have that. Still, two out of three ain’t bad, in this case. I cared about the girl. I had feelings for her. But it was just kind of a thing. Obligatory. Mostly an absence of negative feelings, rather than the presence of a bewildering slew of confusing, elation-giving ones. The bottom line, I guess, is that it worked for us. Overall, she was thrilled about the arrangement, and I certainly couldn’t complain. If I ever did meet one of these so-called soulmates, I supposed, I could deal with things then. Until that point, it was as good a scenario as any. 
	This continued for more than two years, which was three years into my first stint of commercial construction. I had been with Ward and his company the entire time. I made a little bit more, but my skills had started to far outstrip my job scope. In fact, there wasn’t enough work of the type I needed anymore, in commercial construction. By then, I knew enough about the overall job market to see two clear paths ahead of me: commercial fitter/welder, working his ass off like I had been doing, for little more than I was already making, or industrial pipe welder at roughly twice that.
	The choice was obvious. Even so, it took six months of preparation before I attempted to test for a pipe welding job. It’s governed by hundreds of pages of code and procedures, at a minimum. Taken together, there are thousands. I looked at each one of them, even if what I was seeing made no sense to me. Just charts and charts of fuckin’ numbers, man. It’s so far-removed from making that metal do what you want with a rig. But I worked on the aspects I really needed to master to pass X-rays. Because if you bust one industrial X-ray, you’re fired. The welds are tracked for the duration of their lives, and you can be held liable should one fail. 
	Not only that, but I busted out two tests before I got hired on to a job, an overall process that took another three months or so. Man, I already had so much money in the bank it was unreal. That was a bonus aspect of having a good woman at home. The tendency to go out on the weekends/in the evenings is greatly lessened. Part of that is dependent on our overall make-up, I suppose, but in my case, anyway, I didn’t do a whole lot but make and save money. 
	Plus, to her credit, Morgan always pulled her own weight. To such a degree that I still didn’t let her pay anything toward rent and bills. I even made it a point to still buy her flowers and gifts on occasion, and fairly lavish ones, at that. It all added a layer of sweetness to the relationship, which sounds somehow like a business arrangement, but at the same time is otherwise explainable. Her life was about as stress-free as one could imagine. It’s kind of old-fashioned, but I think that is how life ought to be. Even her job turned into something to occupy her time rather than a deep-seated need. 
Women are different animals entirely if you’re able to wrest them from the myriad stresses of modern life – the endless worry about money and advancement, keeping up with Joneses, the search for a partner. Their natural state, if you will, is almost some sort of super-woman compared to the average, beleaguered working mother. Throw some semblance of romance in there, such as it was, and you have a pretty exciting homelife in store for you, regardless. Trust me on that one.
	When it came time to move for the job I had successfully tested on to, she moved with me, of course. It was at that point such a natural thing that there was never any question. She could get a similar job anywhere. If she even wanted to.
	That was the start of my life on the road. Money motherfuckin’ makin’. Lord, we used to pull down some big-ass checks. I’m talkin’ ‘bout fourteen-sixteen hundred dollars after taxes, which were at that point actually starting to make a dent. I don’t know what it is inside me that made me do it, but I kept my head down for years, just stacking paychecks. Which was funny, because I had no real plans for the money. 
Come to think of it, I had no real plans for anything. Work. Make money. My car now sat covered, replaced by a one-ton dually truck. I had a welding machine, torch rig, hoses, leads. Everything for rig welding. Plus, I had a fuel tank. When I got on a pipeliner job in North Texas, I got paid three paychecks. One for welding, one for the truck, and one for carrying fuel. I welded my way into damn north Oklahoma, and didn’t think much about it until my bank account broke a hundred thousand dollars. 
	Are you fucking kidding me? I was the most gangster motherfucker alive. But in some sort of ironic, sci-fi/Twilight Zone twist, once I had arrived at this plateau, I found that I didn’t have any of that gangster shit left in me. I had found an entirely different world, far more rewarding in terms of real-world output and gains. I also had that real-man, fuck-the-world construction worker attitude that inevitably comes with years of gained experience. There’s actually a bell curve, I used to tell apprentices. You start off as a construction worker. Then you eventually become aware that you can probably beat the shit out of any normal person out there by default. Finally, you work past the desire to ever have to do that.
	Another I applied to fitters, but it really suits anyone and anything. You start off life as a shitty fitter, and you eventually reach your peak, and will never get any better. Then you start to decline. If you look at things like that, or life as a whole, you can actively seek to extend that high point for as long and far as you can. I mean, I’m no Donald Carnegie or Dale Trump, but I think that’s some pretty solid advice. (Giggle. – Janice.)
	Something else occurs via osmosis. I suspect it’s more real for men than women, based on how much more impact careers have on the life of males versus females in the U.S. 
You become part of a tribe. When you find your trade, they become your people. Even ones you never met, or never will meet. Because you all have that same shared experience. That secret knowledge. We’re the people that build the world, man. The ones who drag their asses out of bed at 3:30 in the morning for years at a time,  laying the foundations of an expanding civilization. And they do it with intelligence, integrity, ingenuity. (All sorts of things that start with ‘I’, I suppose. – Janice.) (Strength and endurance. – Tokio.) Construction workers are a better class of citizen, and I don’t give a fuck what anyone has to say about that shit. (Fine… Although I daresay mothers also fit that category. –  Janice.)
	 This makes it all the more ironic, and unexpected, as to how I first became a bona fide pimp.

Chapter 25 – Pimpin’ Ain’t Easy

There was an unforeseen consequence to the sort of long-term closeness Morgan and I enjoyed: sexual experimentation. Your first live-in mate inevitably leads to learning new things about both of you. Sadly, not everyone will ever know what this is like, and I sort of feel bad for people that flit from partner to partner, doing the same things, only with different people. They’re missing out on what I feel is the best part.
	Initially, what can I say? I took her around the world, so to speak. Thoroughly broken in and fully obedient. But from there we progressed into role-playing. She was definitely a daddy’s girl, and I think the majority of women are, given the right situation and opportunity. If you think about it, it’s a pretty decadent kink, adults being so privileged that they can afford the opportunity to immerse themselves in entire fantasy lives in which they are constantly cared for. I don’t think that kind of shit would fly in frontier America, for instance. 
	A thorough exploration of that naturally led to a little light spanking, but nothing really even in the realm of ‘funishment’. Pretty much just your basic occasional ass slap. Morgan didn’t so much enjoy punishment so much as she enjoyed the threat of punishment.
	Here is a word of warning to you gentlemen: they will say anything. 
In my experience, a woman can be told or led to say absolutely anything you can imagine. Don’t mistake that for them actually meaning it. Men and women both can talk themselves into corners like this by inadvertently agreeing with or saying something they come to regret. With the wrong person, this can lead to disastrous consequences. By the same token, if she blurts out something you weren’t really prepared for, understand it’s on the same level as that, and roll with it. My advice.
Luckily, Morgan was the right person, in these situations. I conducted forays into different areas, and she responded positively. 
Things changed the day I came up with a new threat for her. It had become a variable part of our routine, for me to chastise her and ask her if I was going to have to make her do something. It never failed to excite her, whatever it was, and her answer was always no. 
One day, I asked her if I was going to have to put her ass in a tight dress and drop her off on the street corner.  
“Yes, Daddy,” she said. Literally squirming.
So, I took my cues from that, and it became another extended area of interest for us both. Eventually, I did drag her by the hair to her closet and dressed her myself, in clothes that were previously just for playing in around the house. And babygirl looked good. She was so excited as to be in a daze. I dressed for the occasion myself, and uncovered the car.
All I did was drop her off a few blocks up the street. It wasn’t an area known for that sort of thing, although there were a lot of construction hands in the area. Then I made the block and swung back and picked her up, changing roles in the process. Let’s just say Morgan enjoyed all this very much. 
So much that a man less secure in himself might grow concerned. I could see this leading in two directions. If we continued to play like that, she would inevitably get propositioned for real, with me being witness to it. We would both be in an awkward situation. If I got jealous, and I definitely felt a twinge of that, the whole thing could get ugly. And her enthusiasm made the idea of abandoning this new wrinkle nearly impossible. 
I elected to give her the full ride. 
Now, I knew the mechanics of all this, and the psychology of pimping, to a degree, but I had zero experience in these matters from a first-hand perspective. In fact, it felt fairly weird and awkward to me at first. But I brought Morgan home, tied her facing the wall in our big walk-in closet, and asked her if she liked being a whore.
“Yes, Daddy.”
Now this is going to sound worse than it is, but I beat her ass from her ankles to her shoulders with a plastic coat hanger. She screamed and cried, and all the while had to answer me as I lectured her. I broke down the rules for her, and she acknowledged them all through a veil of tears.
I mean, I did use a plastic one, anyway. 
Here’s the really beautiful thing. When I finally felt we had reached a firm understanding, I untied her and carried her to the bed. She laid her head on my chest, still lightly sobbing and tearing up as she pulled herself close. I held her tightly and we both dozed for a few minutes. When we stirred after a brief catnap, the atmosphere was electric. She and I both were more turned on than we had ever been before. 
I discovered that pimping is a kink. Odder yet, pimping was my backdoor introduction to that whole lifestyle, which was one that I was as of yet unaware of. In fact, I was pretty naïve, for an aspiring pimp. The Johns changed all that.
Morgan and I played like that for three more cycles over the course of a few weeks, minus the beating. And when we weren’t enacting it, we were fucking and talking about it. It was like she got her second sexual wind. Or perhaps it was really her first.
Each drop-off was preceded by an order to get that money for Daddy. The fourth time I dropped her off, I saw her getting into a pickup truck as I made the last corner. It’s a bittersweet feeling, man. Y’all already know I am not cut out for this. I have a heart. You would have to be an extra sociopathic motherfucker to not feel a little conflicted the first time your live-in girlfriend has sex with someone else for money.
But I knew the deal. Morgan was for real, and I had always claimed to be, hadn’t I? So, I fell into pimp mode for real. I got a good idea of what the vehicle was, and hung back almost a block and followed. Stupidly, I had given her no clear instructions as to where I would pick her up afterwards. When they turned into an alley, I made the block and waited. Morgan had wisely exited on foot, which was shrewd for a number of reasons. 
I picked her up on the main drag, and when she got in the car, she handed me a twenty-dollar bill. 
“Did I do good, Daddy?”
I assured her she had. She wasn’t just excited, but proud. I couldn’t wait to get her home, as strange as that sounds. After she brushed her teeth. One thing I did know, even back then, was that in prostitution, condoms were mandatory. That and no kissing went a long way toward keeping things palatable for me. The sex was hotter than even, believe it or not. 
Later on, I stared hard at that twenty-spot. That was a serious lick at the time. Numbers entered the equation. A hundred dollars a day, which would probably involve less than two hours or so, would be twice the money she made when she had her bank teller job.
So that became the goal, and I worked her up to it slowly. We settled in at five for a long while, until eventually she started going out some weekends without me, taking a cab, and doing double that. And babygirl brought every dollar home to me. It’s really funny. When things settled down and became normalized, she enjoyed having me to come home to and snuggle with, just like she worked at the dollar store or something. 
Meanwhile, the money was piling up. 
Now, the biggest failing whores have is in not thinking about the future. The only retirement plan they have in store for them is abandonment. That’s a sad fact of life, and if a pimp claims otherwise, he’s lying. But do you know how you can tell when a pimp is lying? His lips are moving.
Of course, I couldn’t do that to Morgan. 
Not that she paid any attention, but she had two bank accounts in her name, checking and savings. And things were still very paper check-oriented, back then. But she didn’t use the checkbook or visit the bank. Maybe it was the association with her old job, for some reason. Whatever it was, she lived a very spartan lifestyle. Other than asking Daddy for money when she needed to shop or pick up groceries, she just didn’t spend any. Like denying herself was part of her whole fantasy lifestyle. It’s all pretty complicated, honestly. We were both happy, though, and that counts for a whole lot.
In my case, for more than one reason. Even though what I broke off for Morgan (In a most un-pimp-like, but endearing fashion. – Janice.) amounted to a good bit more than she used to make before taxes, I was also banking twice that. Minus our expenses, of course. Even then, we were on the road, with low, fixed bills. Basically rent, food, and gas.
Now, I will tell you life was good, and it was. At the same time, it was some real shit, and a full-time job. There were days and weeks where I had my hands full, and was dealt the full complement of hazards and problems associated with my side trade.
Until she started working alone, I had abandoned the use of the car in dropping her off. It was fine when it was for fun, but way too conspicuous to be seriously considered. I was in that world, but not of that world. Viewing it from my new perspective, the whole channel seemed to be a sucker move. Because later in life, I got an inside view of the high-end world of prostitution, and saw how a few flamboyant amateurs took the blame away from the real trade. Or perhaps blame is the wrong word. Took the focus away from others. 
Now the whole subject in general is hotly controversial. In the U.S., anyway. Not everywhere. There are matters of legality, and morality. First of all, don’t ever associate or conflate the two. All of the biggest, most immoral acts on Earth have been conducted ‘legally’. I don’t think I even need to give you any examples. (Indeed. Sadly, I find myself trying to find examples that contradict your declaration of ‘all’, and I cannot. – Janice.) 
I’ll say this right up front, in plain English, so I’m clear. There is no morality in laws against prostitution. What they are, instead, is a weapon to use against poor people. In our case, poor black people. Okay, so, not so poor, in my case. But you get my point. It’s an economic weapon, furthermore. I was a living example of what was possible. So was Morgan, for that matter. 
More to the point, it’s anti-women. In most cases, it’s an example of kicking someone when they’re down. It’s part of what makes that whole world such a hostile, ugly place. Globally, though, your rights end where mine begin. The idea of restricting two people from having sex is outlandish, if you think about it in such stark terms. That sounds worse than some George Orwell shit, and we’ve been living that way for hundreds of years or more. 
So, your legal arguments against prostitution are demolished along with the underlying false moral premise. But pimping is different than prostitution, isn’t it? That’s how much you have to drill down on the topic to understand the breadth of the issues involved. It all comes down to voluntary versus coercion. Because rest assured, there exists an entire sub-category of pimp who specializes in strong-arm extortion, kidnapping, and rapes. Gorilla pimps literally run up on some bitch and sell her as she’s held prisoner. I’d say they were the most reprehensible people in the world, but I’ve found worse. Think on that shit for a second.
Now, that’s the extreme end of coercion. I don’t think there are a lot of chicks like Morgan, for instance. It wasn’t a choice they made, as such. Rather, they fell into a role, one way or another, by an outside force. Street pimping, anyway, is almost always coercion. Other than myself, I have never encountered anything that suggested otherwise, although my existence does imply others. I’d like to think there are some other good cats out there living The Life. 
I mean, I tell myself I’m a good dude. What else can I do? The fact is, I was making a decent living off of someone else’s back. But there was no force involved, and any coercion in this case is questionable. But, like I said, that was an oddly unique situation. Another fickle finger of fate, I feel. (Funny. – Fanice.) 
Now, here’s the rub in all that: You can consent to being coerced. If that’s what you want to do, hey, baby. It is your right. Because the truth about that form of coercion is that it requires two people. Absolutely nothing can stop a girl who doesn’t want to be coerced, pressured is probably a better word, from leaving the first time she decides to. Even if she was heavily watched, there are any number of ways of slipping away, not the least of which is just getting the John to drive her somewhere else. 
And that’s if they even got themselves that involved in the first place. Because pimping doesn’t happen overnight or all at once, for first-timers. You might call it grooming. At any rate, it is at the consent of the groomed, if you can dig that.
So, let me hip you in on some shit, here. There’s a certain type of girl who gravitates toward this scene. Sure, she has the same sort of background. Likely fatherless. Dropped out, or will. But these are the types that like to sleep in. Ain’t tryin’ to work. Likes to party. Drink, do drugs. Loud. Boisterous. Likes to be the center of attention. It’s a lifestyle that suits a number of their needs. That it comes with a pimp attached is just all part of it. A lot of them honestly couldn’t manage their lives alone. Imagine that. Sitting on a goldmine you own, and being unable to utilize it without someone else’s direction, and then losing it all anyway.
If we actually had some sort of working justice system, I guess you could say, in an ideal world, they would have recourse to sue for fraud and damages. But it ain’t like a pimp is some registered corporate entity. Maybe they should be, though. 
One truth about pimps that most people don’t know is that they primarily protect you from other pimps. If a girl tries to go solo, or starts out that way, she is at that point cutting into all of their incomes, and will be dealt with, one way or another. But it generally ends with them acquiring a pimp in the end anyway. Or, being acquired by a pimp, I should say. That, I think, is the distinction right there.
Now, it is said by a lot of people that these girls need love. And that is undoubtedly true. But if you think they aren’t largely on drugs out there on the street, you’re pretty far off base. There are some who are drinkers, and many who do both. But the trade is largely driven by cocaine, heroin, and to a lesser extent, pills. That’s why pimping and dealing are usually intertwined. Imagine having to serve a small, voracious army drugs every day of the week to keep them going. You become a quantity dealer by default. Pimps deal to other pimps, because, oh, yeah, there are friendly alliances and warring factions out there. In the end, it’s dog eat dog, but before that, there are even partnerships. The ties to the straight drug dealing world come naturally.
With drugs, the same as prostitution, when it’s legal, it’s safer and crime is reduced. My time in Europe taught me a lot about that sort of stuff. There are countries who are getting good results. Meanwhile, people in the U.S., most of them black folks, it seems like, are getting thrown in jail over and over again for things that should never have been illegal in the first place. It seems odd to me that a nation by and large all calling itself Christian would turn a blind eye to what are essentially atrocities on a wide scale. Shit like that makes me wonder about all white people, honestly. But even that is not fair to say. Because black churches are no less judgmental in these areas. That is some sad shit, man. 
I mean, their own stories about their lord talk about him hanging out with prostitutes. Anthropological evidence suggests cannabis and even hashish were in use at the time. Hemp gruel is the second most nutritious gruel on Earth, if you’re into gruel. They actually found THC in the bowl of a woman who died during childbirth, suggesting that it was used as medicine. Weed science is some fascinating shit.
But the world is run on hypocrisy and evil. If you people knew what even jail, much less prison, was like, I suspect a few of you would change your view quick. In which case, you’re ignorant, not malicious, and that’s a slightly better view of the world. Unfortunately. 
Well, damn. I was supposed to get into the ups and down I had with Morgan. Or at least the downs. But Mrs. Jackson is off of work, and says she wants to take me home and stuff me with the roast she’s been stewing all day. Rice and gravy, baby carrots, little potatoes. Oh, yes. Tokio has his own Tilly, nowadays. Imagine my delight.

Chapter 26 – 99 Problems

Well, shit. 
I didn’t know it would be this hard. I am more than a little reluctant to get into the real dirt and tarnish my reputation. Miss Janice has been very… non-judgmental, but… I still have to sit here and tell her all this stuff. I mean, even if I just talked into a tape recorder alone, she is still gonna hear it. And most of the rest of my tale ain’t nothin’ nice.
I should point out there was also cocaine involved, by this point. I was pipelining in the early 80s. Everyone was on cocaine. And it was good cocaine, not like the shit floating around today. Drug tests weren’t even a thing in the field, yet. Cocaine and drinking go hand in hand, of course. At which point, rational thought is kinda difficult. I’m not saying this to make excuses, but looking back now, I can see these things were bigger factors than I used to believe they were. 
Cops, Johns, and disease. Rival pimps aside (and that is generally a problem for those social types that regularly mix it up with other pimps, something I avoided), those are the primary problems a pimp faces on a daily basis. Even a wannabe pimp with only one trick in his stable. My biggest problem, as we all know already, is that I really wasn’t cut out for this shit in the first place. 
Now, once her routine had been established, Morgan operated on her own. I still had a job to go to. The first month or so almost killed me as I tried to handle her business and make it in every morning. Let’s just say the coke helped, and that’s when it really got hooks in me. It was a relief when she said she could take care of herself at night. And she could. All in all, Morgan was a very capable prostitute. She was smart, and that went a long way. 
The first time she was ever late coming in, I was aware of it, even though I had already slept some. That internal alarm clock is a motherfucker, you know? There are retired men (People. – Janice.) all around the world that will wake up at 3:30 AM for the rest of their lives. So, I knew she was late, but I elected to give it a little while. Not to be some clingy, nervous Nelly-ass pimp, you know. Thirty minutes passed. Forty-five. 
I was about to get up and go look for her, setting myself up for a grueling day at work, when I heard her come in. Fifty-one minutes late. But I let it slide without explanation, and she slid into bed next to me. “Sorry, Daddy.” Chances are, I would have flown off the handle and gotten myself all amped up. To discipline her now would interfere with my sleep.
So, I slept. She got me off to work with breakfast and coffee, as she always did, no matter what was going on. Well, up to that point, anyway. In retrospect, I gave her way too much slack in way too many areas. 
I didn’t pick up on it at the time, but she kept her face positioned away from me, with her hair to one side. Morgan had the best damn hair, you wouldn’t believe it. It was beyond shoulder length, soft, and durable. I mean, you could pull it, hard, and I did. It was amazing. And a lot of work to achieve, as I learned. Hell, after living with her for a while, *I* had the best hair. Shoulder-length hair wasn’t really compatible with my day job, but man, I looked cool as fuck when I went into pimp mode.
She had a little ritual she did in the mornings, handing over her earnings from the night before, and I should have noticed something was amiss when she skipped it that day. But I didn’t. Which shows you, I guess, what an amateur I was about everything. My focus wasn’t on the money. The whole thing might have passed without incident, but on my way out the door, rather than accepting her peck on the cheek, I set my lunchbox down and grabbed her with both hands, kissing her firmly.
That’s when I saw the black eye she was hiding.
I was shocked. After a moment’s pause, I shoved her out of the way and made a beeline to the nightstand. 
“What’s he look like and drive?” I barked.
She was over there in a flash, her hand covering mine as I started to pull the drawer open. Morgan had always hated guns, and refused to even learn how to shoot one. 
“Daddy, wait! I’m sorry! It was an accident!”
“A fucking what?”
“His hand slipped.”
“How the fuck does your hand slip like that?”
“He paid me $50 extra to slap me. I let him, Daddy. I’m sorry! Look in my purse.”
Sure enough, her usual take was there, plus another fifty. On one hand, bruise aside, it was a considerable sum of money. I suppose I should have been impressed, and I know that was her intention. But I was tired, shaken, and my day ended up being blown anyhow. Because rules are rules. She had broken one, which caused her to break another, and it had all led to an entire chain of events. As evidence of how poorly I was thinking, at least an hour had passed. There was no way I would ever be able to find the John again anyway, at that point.
The gun stayed in the dresser.
I am going to absolve myself as best I can by saying this was largely driven out of concern for Morgan. She had given me a hell of a scare. It really wasn’t as big of a deal as I made it out to be, all in all. She meant well.
“Get in the closet,” I said in a low voice.
She put her eyes to the floor and did so, and it was really a closet, by then. Full of coats and shit. I didn’t care. Morgan got the belt, this time. I’m talking my thick, heavy-duty leather workman’s belt. I couldn’t handle it, I daresay. She said my bare hand was worse, though. It would be more than a week before the bruises and welts started fading, and they ran from her shoulders to her calves.
But before I allowed a sobbing Morgan to let go, I blindsided her with a slap to the side of her head. Her other eye.
“My hand slipped,” I said.
Then I walked out the door.
In a real sense, that was the beginning of the end for me and her. But the end was a long time in coming. When I came home that night, she had two black eyes. Plus, other than “Hey, Daddy,” and serving me dinner, she didn’t have anything to say to me. She was careful to stay just shy of disrespectful.
But she didn’t go out that night, and I understood that. See? That’s the same kind of shit that what I consider a “real” pimp would never allow. I was far too lenient and empathetic. We watched a little TV in silence, and when we got in bed, she attempted to give me the cold shoulder as best she could. That I didn’t attempt to fuck her out of her mood is another indication that I was a half-assed pimp at the time, at best.
This went on for four days, and right when I was going to put her back out there on my own, I came home, and she was covering her fading bruises with make-up. Things returned to more-or-less normal, for a while. For sure, there was never any extra cash in her purse after that. 
Now, you can say what you will about all this, but Morgan would tell you this herself: I should have beat her ass more often than I did. I now feel that I was out of line, but my intent was correct. I let certain behaviors and moods slide when I shouldn’t have, and that proved to be detrimental to us both in the long run.
So, the next set of problems wasn’t her fault at all. I say set, because each of these three situations get repeated endlessly in this game, and each girl multiplies the frequency. I got a call on the landline at something like two a.m., which was, again, past the time she was supposed to be out working. 
It was her first arrest for pandering.
It happens. It’s going to happen. But she was good at being low-key and discreet, and had soon taken to dressing more like a hot executive on her way home after a long day. Morgan had managed to talk herself out of an arrest more than once before, being essentially told to move on, regardless. It’s kinda foul that police would regard a black woman who’s a CEO and a streetwalker as roughly equivalent, I guess. But it was a misdemeanor charge in the state we were in. Bail and a fine. 
If she doesn’t talk.
She was well-drilled in these procedures, but if a girl starts talking about how she’s working for a pimp, that opens a huge new can of worms. So, a successful strategy mostly involves just not saying anything about anything.
Morgan was pretty shook up, however. It was dawn by the time I got her bonded out, and she ran into my arms, crushing me, she hugged me so tight. “I’m sorry, Daddy,” she kept saying, and sobbing. I did my best to put her mind at ease, but I guess I didn’t do that very well. She was dreading another beating. The ride home went much the same way. 
Back at the apartment, her eyes never left the floor as I unlocked the deadbolt to let us in. You know her ass walked straight to the closet and grabbed the hanger rod? I walked up behind her, and my shadow loomed ominously over her. Then I bent down and kissed her cheek. “Come with Daddy”. I led her to the couch, and sat her down. 
“Don’t move.”
“Yes, Sir.”
Now, we were road dogs, essentially, with me working pipeline, and Morgan putting it out there wherever we ended up, but we didn’t live like most people working on the road. We usually got three-month leases (which are readily available when you have all the rent and deposits up front in cash like I did) in furnished luxury condos. Occasionally, we’d rent a house, but we found it was just additional upkeep for things we didn’t use anyway, like a lawn or pool. 
What I’m getting at is that I always had luxury furniture, a gourmet kitchen, and state of the art audio-video systems. If it wasn’t included in the lease, I bought it myself.
I clicked on the projection TV. That shit was like three feet diagonally or something. But it only had a good picture for two people sitting right in front of it, which worked out. The cable box was on something like Nickelodeon, HBO’s “Fraggle Rock”, something like that. I didn’t watch TV, generally. But shows like that instantly soothed babygirl, for whatever reason.
Meanwhile, I went to work in the kitchen. A few minutes later, and I had returned with buttered popcorn, candy, and coke floats. Without consulting Morgan, I put on her favorite videotape.
It was The Godfather. 
It’s so funny to think about the two sides of her. You could see the gears in her head turning when she watched it. She fumed and strained each time, analyzing every moment of it. She wanted to be a gangster. At the same time, she was an adorable, helpless babygirl. (Janique tells me they are called ‘littles’ nowadays, and it’s a lot more common than we tend to think. – Janice.)
A baby boss.
I covered her with a blanket and pulled her in close to me. After she had her fill of junk, she finished the movie with her head on my shoulder, never taking her eyes off the screen.
So, I had a surprise for her. First, though, let me say that somehow, the entire scenario had me feeling a bit, um, amorous. In this case, I felt I had done everything right. I played the role of protector successfully. 
Naturally, I would have to mess all that up to a degree.
I mean, I started out with the intention of, like, you know, making love to Morgan. And I did that. Too well, maybe. Because the more turned on she got, the more turned on I got. Soon, I was an out-of-control locomotive. I don’t have to tell most men how it is when you reach that stage. Your empathy, shall we say, is at a low during those moments.
Long story made short and sanitized, her dignity was damaged in a few ways. I had always felt it healthier that she be allowed to display her feelings. I could have made her hide anything like that from me, but things fester in the dark, you know? Whether in a relationship or pimping, or the intersection of both that I occupied, you can’t allow unseen liabilities to develop.
Once I caught my breath, I picked up on the fact that her feelings were hurt, and did my best to soothe her ruffled feathers. From a pimp standpoint, this was a mistake. But as a human being, what else could one do? According to Morgan, I should have whipped her ass for not lovingly accepting whatever abuse I chose to dish out to her. In a real sense, I made the wrong decision for either scenario. Live and learn.
After I had finally managed to make her smile a bit, I made cocoa, and got a package out of my gun safe. It was for her birthday that was still two weeks away, but the timing was right. It was an advance release of Godfather 2, which we had missed in theaters. Her eyes grew wide, and she actually jumped up on me and squeezed my neck, kissing me over and over. I think that might have been the single most beautiful moment of all our time together. It was so pure. 
I watched it with her twice in a row.
Things settled down for a while after that. I quietly paid the fine and let her forget about things. The primary advantage we had regarding the police is that we were mobile. I followed the pipeline and we would stay put until the drive to work began to approach an hour. Then we’d move an hour’s drive ahead of the job. That meant Morgan’s face never became too familiar in any one place for long. When she ever did get popped, and it happened about four times, all told, we would immediately set up shop elsewhere.
What the first arrest did, though, was force me to start thinking about new modes of operation. For a while, I was extremely short-sighted. I tried to mitigate the problem within the context of streetwalking. That strategy can only go so far.
Now, here’s the funny thing about all this stuff: I worked with the dudes who were her clients, but it was pretty much impossible for me to get her work that way. I don’t mean I worked with them directly, for the most part, although I don’t know that for sure, either. But due to the nature of my work, those were her clients. If you weren’t driving a truck with a toolbox, she was skeptical. Because those were good clients. Married, clean, polite, grateful, and money wasn’t a problem.
But if you ask that same dude working next to you who might have picked her up the night before if he wants to fuck a girl you know, they are going to say no. In fact, you’re looked at strangely for even asking the question. It’s a quirk of psychology.
I did find a way around that, however. I didn’t come at anyone directly. But when we were gathered up in a group of five or so, as we were more apt to be than not, I would talk at length about the bad-ass hoe I fucked. How hot she was, how good she was at everything. Nine times out of ten, someone would ask if I had her number. Usually in a half-joking manner. Shit yeah, I had her number. It was my own. But the phone eventually did start ringing. It was another step toward becoming big timers.
It took a while for things to even out, but I solved that by charging double from the jump. Same girl, same acts, double the income. And it worked. Another quirk of psychology, I think.  After six months of networking, Morgan only went out once or twice a week to the corner. The rest of her evenings were appointments with clients.
But until I got her to full-time escort status, we went through a lot of the same shit. The last thing I’ll mention is also awkward in a few ways. Embarrassing, even. Morgan used condoms…for sex. Blowjobs, though, were another story. I mean, it was the 80s. Even AIDS didn’t stop the sex trade much. Ain’t nobody interested in you sucking on their condom.
So, she got gonorrhea. And gave that shit to me. It was in her throat. Yes, that’s a thing, and I definitely didn’t know that. So, I ended up giving it back to her in her pussy before we realized. But I gotta tell you, when I woke up to a burning, dripping dick, I was *pissed*. In a way I likely never was before. This was different. It affected me not only personally, but physically. Emotionally.
At least I wasn’t totally stupid about it. I got us treatment before I beat her ass. Now, in reflection, I can see I was wrong for that, too. It wasn’t really easily avoided although she did learn to check first, which can eliminate some incidents, in theory. I did the good Daddy/pimp thing and got her all fixed up. It’s funny how pimps are mostly there to solve problems that they themselves are creating, but anyway.
Morgan got the motherfucking wire hanger, and she didn’t even see it coming. Like I said, I had set a bad precedent in the past. Whether the bad move was in beating her, or not beating her, I still can’t say for sure. She was a complicated girl, under the surface. I don’t think I ever fully understood her motivations. Maybe she didn’t, either.
Things took a serious turn about a month later when she came back a little early from one of her nights out. 
“Daddy, this Angela. She needs a new Daddy…”

Chapter 27 – Baby Boss

	I was so stunned, I had to put my game face on before my jaw dropped involuntarily. 
	“Is that okay, Daddy? Want to check her out? She’s a good girl.”
	I looked her in the eyes for the first time. That’s where it all happens. Y’all just don’t know. A skilled pimp can literally acquire women with a look. In fact, in some areas of the country, a pimp can steal from a rival’s stable or bank merely by managing to make eye contact. It’s just part of the rules of the game, but is also related to what I’m talking about.
	I think a lot of freaks just like to man hop, myself.
	But this bitch… I say that in the most loving way one can say that, by the way. This bitch was gorgeous. It says a lot about Morgan’s confidence in herself, her initiative, something, to be so bold as to bring another girl home with her, and one that was almost objectively prettier than she herself was. I can’t, again, say for sure what all of her motivations were. But it was a game changer. 
I don’t know why I didn’t think of it myself. I mean, I wasn’t going to go and try and cop someone else’s tricks. Regardless, it became part of my repertoire, and from that moment on, I treated it like it was my idea all along.
	Angela. Man. Picture this. Light-skinned, but with freckles, and naturally green eyes. It was a stunningly unique combination, enhanced by an exquisite face. Make-up could barely add to what was already there. Her eyes had an alluring, nearly Asian quality to them. Her lips… They were a sort of dark coral with a darker outline. Like she was born wearing lipstick. 
	She was a little taller than Morgan, and a lot thicker. Almost twice the ass, and it was flawless. What she called cellulite looked more like dimples to me. Just round and velvety, with tits to match. She was so “too good to be true”, I immediately started wondering what the catch was. I did find out soon enough, and it wasn’t what I would even consider a dealbreaker. 
Regal is a word that comes to mind when describing her, both in appearance and demeanor. She was shy, and withdrawn, but there was a shard of noble steel within that was there if you were perceptive. But let’s be real: my dick made the decision.
“Alright,” I told Morgan. I find that it’s best to be a man of few words. In what I consider our off-hours, she and I would have great, lengthy conversations about any number of things, and I loved that about her. But when it came down to business, I was terse. That became an effective strategy as time went on. 
At this point, I was playing the role, but also more into it than I wanted to even let on with Morgan. My response to her throwing me off balance was to try and return it and then some. Let her think I was doing something for her, and not the other way around. You know, just regular pimp game shit. So, I walked up to Angela and grabbed her by the back of her hair, which was a bit shorter than Morgan’s, but not much. I pulled her damn head back and opened her mouth with my finger, and inspected her like a damn horse. I got the immediate impression that they both enjoyed that move.
Then I walked around her, ending back in front again, a few feet away. 
“Take her clothes off.”
Angela started unbuttoning her own blouse, and Morgan slapped her hand away. “He said me.”
Like she had been waiting to do it. And not because she was interested in her, or girls at all. But like she was unwrapping a present for me. Or unveiling an art project.
It was some power move shit from the jump. Morgan was my number one, and she made sure to assert herself immediately. Instead of continuing with the buttons, Morgan pulled the girl’s damn pants down around her ankles first. When she had her out of the shirt, she ceremoniously threw it across the room to the floor. 
“Pick up your foot,” she told her as she removed her shoes and then pants. The whole while, Angela looked at me with those big, soft eyes.
When she was down to panties, a bra, and ankle socks, Morgan stepped back.
“Do you like her, Daddy? Can we use her?”
“Hmmm. Maybe so. What do you think?”
“She works, Daddy. She’s like me. We can train her.”
It wouldn’t be an accurate assessment of her form if I only described her highlights. Then again, I don’t consider it a detriment, in her case. Being naturally bigger than Morgan, Angela had a tiny bit of a tummy by comparison. She was also twice as cuddly, and it honestly suited her. Beyond that, she had a big caesarian scar that we never discussed. If she didn’t want to talk about it, I wasn’t going to ask.
Mentally, well... Have you ever heard the phrase “Good hires bring in good hires?” Morgan was good at what she did, and shrewd. Angela was similar in temperament, and I think that’s what she was drawn to in her. The difference is, Morgan had undergone a lot of what I consider assertiveness training. She was as soft as ever with me, but when it came to dealing with other girls, she had absorbed a lot of my demeanor, over time becoming another person entirely. 
In a very Godfather-esque move, it had become, in a sense, on a surface level, shall we say, *her* operation. A baby boss. I was the muscle. And the dick.
“Let’s give her a shot,” I said.
“Yay! Thank you, Daddy!” She kissed me on the cheek, genuinely enthused. 
I was way ahead of her, though. Mindful of the order in which I did so, I grabbed Morgan’s hand, and then Angela’s, intending to take them both to bed.
“Not yet, Daddy! She doesn’t know the rules…”
In other words, Morgan wanted me to whip her ass. Ordinarily, that is not the order in which these things are done. After you put your cock straight up into their brains, then and only then do you discipline. I really wasn’t sure how it was going to work this way. 
On the other hand… Morgan and I had both low-key come a bit deeper into the spanking sort of world, anyway. I found that I enjoyed it more than I had initially thought I would, and she seemed to just… need it from time to time. That’s some complicated shit that I can’t ever hope to fully understand. I do know some fetishes are formed early on by a misplaced association of some sort. That’s the only way I can explain, say, shoe or foot people, in my mind. Because, come on, man. It’s a fucking shoe. Or a foot. Either way.
So, my armchair analysis, knowing what I do about her, is that she was spanked when she was younger, and I think, sexualization aside, it represents care and familial love. If that makes any sense at all. When she grew too old to spank, she felt a little less loved. That’s what I feel, anyway. It means having a Daddy that cares enough about you to take unpleasant steps.
That somehow turned into pleasant steps. In this case, though, it wasn’t playing. It was time to lay down the law, and Morgan helped. 
I nodded to her, and she took Angela by the hand to the closet.
“If you work out, you can call him Daddy. But he’s *my* Daddy first. Understand? It’s always ‘Sir’, otherwise.”
She shook her head, and Morgan moved to put her hands on the clothes rod. God damn, I looked at that big ass poked out like that, and I had to pull down her panties, too. If Morgan wasn’t a factor, I would have dispensed with the belt all together. Instead, I gave her the first of about twenty strokes. Each time, Morgan iterated a rule to be followed, the ones I had instilled in her, and the ones that had grown out of situations we had gone through. It was sound, tested policy.
One that reduced Angela to a sobbing mess, though. When that was achieved, Morgan turned her around and gave her a light kiss on the lips. It wasn’t even sexual. Almost like initiation into a sorority. Welcome to the family…
And now they both knew what was coming. I’ll say this much: I didn’t let either of them leave that night, and I didn’t go to work the next morning. But when they were both on the bed, Morgan said, “Can Angie do some coke with us, Daddy?”
This was the hitch. Like I said, not even a hitch, as such. Over time, I came to expect it. In fact, if you weren’t doing coke before you met Morgan, you were afterwards. She didn’t even do a lot of it. I mean, I probably did twice as much as she did. For her, it was a line or three before she went out, and maybe a bump or two over the course of the evening. But they had bonded over it, and it had led to all this, so who was I to complain?
 Son. I wish I could ask all the ladies to skip the rest of this part, so I could speak freely. Talk about a life’s dream realized. It’s not even enough that I was with two women for the first time, or how damn hot they both were, but everything clicked that night. I think Angela was looking for acceptance, and kinda had a thing for Morgan (that was probably mixed in with the coke feelings – I had excellent cocaine). Morgan wanted to please me, and I suspect she also was just kinda… bored and wanted someone to hang out with. 
And you know what Tokio’s about. Clarence, I mean. I wasn’t Tokio back then.
When we finally did sleep, I woke up with a gorgeous black woman under each arm. Life was good. For all of the next day and night, we just spent time together, and for some of that I was a third wheel to their conversations and activities. Upon reflection, I realized I was looking at a new set of possibilities. Morgan’s escort work included a fair amount of regular customers, and there really wasn’t any reason for her to hit the corner ever again. Until now.
It wasn’t just the additional money I was looking at. It was additional money on top of the additional money. Because my experience with them was unparalleled, and was definitely worth paying for. So, I was already turning that over in my head, when Morgan handed me a slip of paper while Angie was in the shower.
“This is what she makes for these things, Daddy. I’m taking the rest. Is that okay?”
She was taxing her, five percent. The funny thing was, it still went into the account she never really dipped into. It was almost a purely symbolic gesture. But she had realized her dream of becoming a Baby Boss.
 	I pulled her into my lap and kissed her on the forehead.
	“Good baby.”
	That was all she needed to hear. Morgan curled up on me like a contented cat.
	A few words of advice to you gentlemen that idly fantasize about such a scenario/relationship. While getting two women into bed can be achieved solely through money or finesse, getting your significant other to agree to it is another thing entirely. You can seriously mess things up if you approach it wrong. As far as some sort of multi-person relationship, that’s some unicorn shit. I mean, I’m sure it happens, but it is exceedingly rare. Otherwise, one of us would know someone who is in an arrangement like that. (Janice just looked at me over her glasses. Okay, I know *one* couple like that, but they don’t count. They’re in a relationship with everyone…)
	It worked in my case because they’re hoes. 
One thing your normal relationships don’t always have is a clear-cut hierarchy. Like, you might be the Don Dada in the bedroom, but your wife doesn’t want you out bowling on Friday nights or whatever shit regular people do. Or worse yet, you made the mistake of entering into a committed relationship that didn’t really work out sexually in the long run. That happens a lot, I think. You don’t really know when you’re twenty what you’re gonna like when you’re forty. 
	There was no such problem in our household. Morgan answered to me, and Angela really answered to us both. It was fairly harmonious early on, with the three of us. In fact, I daresay that a secondary use she had for Angie was to get me off of her at least some of the time. Our libidos might have been somewhat evenly matched at one point, but that was what she did for a living. Instead, she took to shopping some weekend afternoons by herself, intentionally giving us time together alone. 
	Even so, it takes work to manage everyone’s feelings. Morgan had to know that she was number one. Angie wanted to belong and not feel like an add-on. Both had to suppress some natural level of jealousy at times, no matter how careful I was. Between working, managing a now very profitable illegal business, doing a fair amount of chemicals, and living with two women, I think I successfully navigated a minefield. You would think I had all anyone could ever ask for. 
I wanted more.

Chapter 28 – Pimp Shit

	Fuck it. I went to Vegas.
	Well, *we* did. Eventually. That’s how I wanted to start the chapter off, anyway, and I did. But Janice, in her infinite wisdom, chose this point to actually intervene in the narrative and ask about my family, who, she notes, have now been curiously absent from mention over a span of years.
	Good point, I suppose.
	I mean, early on, I talked to moms on the phone. I made a few holidays there, even. One of her birthdays. As the job took me further away from Houston, it was a few phone calls a year. I don’t mean to sound cold. She wasn’t, either. We were just… adults about things. Not overly sentimental. Let’s say that. 
	Til and I, on the other hand, exchanged letters monthly. There was always the occasional spate of phone calls, usually centered around birthdays and other holidays. Talking to her and Maxxy still remained the highlight of any given year. As time went on, Maxxy took it upon herself to call me on her own. Away from Til’s ears, I noted. She was her usual exuberant self, bursting with things to talk about that she had been studying. Watching her approach college age was really something to behold.
	But there was another side of her that developed over time. Let’s just say for now that little Maxine Jackson was a tad more ambitious than her mother.
	Now, when I say, “Fuck it. I went to Vegas,” that’s just some cool-ass shit I wanted to say. What I meant was, I quietly made arrangements on my own for me, Morgan, and Angela to fly to Vegas for an event some two weeks hence. 
	Player’s Ball.
	Part of me is amused by my hubris, looking back. I was still the furthest thing from a mack anyone had probably ever been. Two girls had literally fell into my lap, I barely knew what to do with them, but I was ready to rub elbows with the biggest players in the game. 
	This wasn’t the fake-ass, commercial, parody player’s balls stuff like they have now in Vegas. It as the legit, underground one that was likely to pop up anywhere in the country, on Don “Magic” Juan’s birthday. As real as it gets, in other words. Morgan, and to a lesser extent, Angela, were my grapevine connections to The Life. I had heard about previous events in Nashville and Detroit, but Vegas was too compelling to pass up.
	I was completely unprepared. 
	My girls were, too, in fact, because I sprung it on them at the last minute. It was all squeals of joy and frantic cries when I told them our plane left in three hours. I had three suits in a travel bag, and a duffel of shoes and toiletries. Oh, plus twenty thousand in cash in my inner vest pocket. For no real reason. The girls, though… I don’t know how women can pack the way they do. A week’s worth of clothes each, plus a whole carry-on bag of just make-up stuff *and* big purses full of things.
	 They knew what to bring to wear, but I dressed them down a bit for the plane ride. I was already self-conscious about that part of the trip. It was a good call, too, because I was definitely the only pimp on there. 
	We took a cab to the airport, but they didn’t know how to act when I had them change there (I did so myself), and we were then picked up by a limo and taken to the hotel.
	It was the Imperial Palace. In a sense, an off-brand sort of place, for Vegas. At the same time, it was oddly perfect. It definitely had an exotic feel to it. A little more free-wheeling than some other casinos. All of Vegas had what you might call pimp decorations, but the Asian themes, all poorly-lit, somehow just had a pimp-ass feel to it. Then it had weird shit on display like Hitler’s Mercedes, things like that. The owner apparently collected things like that.
	Pimps were in awe of the bullet-proof glass and armor, Nazis or not. I guess you could say they both had that ‘win at all costs’ mentality between them.
	It was the night before the event, but having arrived at around 8PM, we stepped out of the limo to a few cheers. The party had already started, and we were getting props. I strolled in all cool and slow with a girl under each arm. We didn’t even acknowledge our bags, which the porters scrambled to unload for us. 
	Fucking pimp shit, son. 
	I checked two cats already in the lobby, and they were flamboyant as fuck. Like I said, I wasn’t ready for this at all. I looked like a straight square compared to these dudes. A tourist or something. My girls, though… I am confident in saying that I had two of the hottest bitches in attendance. That is really saying some shit, too. Not only that, but modest and humble pimp that I am, I would add that they were probably two of the best-behaved, trust-worthy girls one could have. That shit counts for a lot.
	But I did really finally consider myself a pimp. Coming to the ball was sort of the acknowledgement of that. And the start of bigger things.
	We checked in, and it was all worth it when I heard the girls gasp as the suite. This room had a heart-shaped bed, a stocked bar, a garden tub *and* a jacuzzi, with a pretty amazing view on top of that. Vegas at night is like nowhere else on earth. They walked into luxury that I hadn’t ever even promised to them, and they had probably never imagined. It felt good to under-promise and over-deliver. The roses and Dom Perignon were an excellent touch. After all, where would I be without them?
	What I didn’t know, though, is that the Imperial Palace was the least likely place for people attending the ball to stay at. Because then they can’t make a grand entrance. Or they could, and some likely still do, but it’s much sillier to do it that way. But that’s the next night, and I am getting ahead of myself.
	I gave the bellhop $50, after he popped the cork on the champagne before he left. Ain’t none of us had even had Dom before. That night we had three bottles. After the girls cooed over their roses, and thanked me extensively in their own, indominable way, we made our way downstairs with two glasses and the bottle in my fist. It took me all of eight minutes to cop two eight balls. Vegas is good like that.
	We threw money that night without a care in the world. The accountant side of me kept track, but the pimp side of me didn’t care. I kept my bank in one pocket, and winnings in the others. When I balanced it out the next day, we had spent $5000. And won something like $1950. Most of that was from Morgan.
	We checked out everything. Roulette. I let the girls pull $10 slots for probably an hour. They were setting off alarms and shit, hitting little jackpots. When we settled in a blackjack table, the three of us all played hands. Angela started chatting up the player next to her, and soon he was discretely passing chips her way. It was an impressive hustle out of her, just casually making money for Daddy without even trying.
	Morgan, though… Her brow furrowed from the moment the first cards were dealt. In blackjack, we all play against the dealer, but she concentrated like she was taking on everyone, with the while world as the prize. It was the return of the baby boss.
	She ended up winning more often than not. But seeing her intensity led me to take her to the high-stakes poker room toward the end of the evening. Angela and I both became spectators as she turned an initial $100 into more than $1500. I think she would still be sitting there if I hadn’t eventually pulled her away.
	We did about ten $100 pulls on a slot on the way out, trying to hit $1,000,000.  
	We caught a cab, and I asked the driver, “Whas’ hattenin’?”
	“What’s happening?” he asked me in return. “What’s not fucking happening this weekend? Comdex, Curtis Mayfield, AVN Awards, Barry Manilow.”
	“Ain’t nobody give a fuck about Barry Manilow. What’s AVN?”
	He looked at me funny. “I thought you were a pimp?”
	“Motherfucker, I am a pimp.”
	“Adult Video News Awards.”
	Now this was a fucked-up decision I had to make. Curtis Mayfield! That is the most stone-cold player shit in the world! Superfly! But the Adult Video Awards…? Damn.
	You know my dick made the decision. I’m happy to say it proved to be the right one.
	Here, my girls were slightly above-average, at best. The performers weren’t really like whores, mentally. Scratch the surface, and they definitely were. But their mentalities were somehow entirely different. They were stars. It was a unique mindset.
	This was the true beginnings of Ultimate Hustle. Let’s just say my eyes were opened fully. The money on display at AVN made player’s ball look like rank amateurs. Distributors and producers were making millions, and the women themselves were making more than pimps.
	The land of opportunity.
	I collected six cards from hiring agents that night, who all properly approached me, never addressing Morgan or Angela directly when discussing business. They obviously understood the game. The last, though, was from a more-or-less entirely black-oriented production company, with an address written on the back.
	“We’re headed to an afterparty. You might consider dropping by,” the rep said. Smooth as hell.
	It turned out to be an unnamed bar cunningly hidden in plain sight in a strip mall. Next door was some heavy metal shop called The Record Gallery. If it wasn’t for the incessant pulse of basslines and the parking lot filled with rental cars going in and out, you would have thought it was an empty building. No lights were visible, and there wasn’t even a sign on the door.
 	When I walked up and grabbed the handle, it was locked. Then after a moment’s pause, the door opened wide. This gigantic motherfucker with fists that looked like they could crush both of mine said, “Bank.”
	I didn’t know what the fuck he meant. I figured it was some sort of cover charge. But I pulled out my entire knot of hundreds. At the center of it was one I had been saving. A fucking $1000 bill. It took me a week to get one from a bank.
	I handed to it him as if he had asked for a Kleenex, and he pursed his lips together, shaking his head no. Then he gestured over his shoulder with his chin and we followed him in. He only wanted to see proof that we were indeed who we claimed to be. It was next-level pimp shit. A private club, and the only people allowed in were true players. 
	The air was thick was weed smoke. A modest stage set up featured a band playing some slow and generic R & B/blues riff that they were improving over. Other than that, it was hard to make out any faces in the dark, with the tables only lit by those little round red candles. 
	He sat us at a booth, the third from the left around the stage and dancefloor area, and I slipped dude the same $1000. This time he took it without question, and it was a true player moment for both of us. I had fucking arrived, son.
	 We ordered our second bottle of Dom of the night, and I think I got half of it on the table opening it. Then I laid out my cool-ass little brass and glass carry case I had and chopped us some lines of what had turned out to be some top-tier powder. 
	We all hit a few blasts, and when we were done, a voice from the booth next to us said, “Got any of that left for an old player, son?”
	I froze up for a second. This was borderline uncool. “I might,” I said.
	“You may approach,” he told me. And it was his attitude that changed mine in an instant. 
	The girls let me out, and I slipped into the booth to our left.
	“Where are your ladies?” he asked.
	“Girls…” I said, and they joined us. 
	“Much better,” he said. “I do appreciate the company.”
	I chopped up some fat lines this time, and passed it to him first. He surprised me by doing a half a blast in each nostril and then passed it back.
	“Ah, that was just for old-time’s sake. Plus, I drank a lot tonight. I surely do appreciate it.”
	So, we ended up shooting the shit for a while, and then he said, “Well, you folks will please excuse me. I have something to attend to.”
	He slipped out and headed to a back room. The lights went down, and then the motherfucker was on stage.
	Curtis fucking Mayfield.
	There was a smattering of applause and whistles, and then he said, “How y’all doin’ tonight?”
	I wanted to lose my mind. I still couldn’t believe what had just happened.
	“I want to dedicate this first one to Clarence, a pretty unlikely name for a pimp, but an ice-cold player nevertheless, and his lovely associates…”
	More cheers went up, and the band launched into “Red House” by Hendrix.
	I have to say, this might be one of the highlights of my entire life. It was an extended, impassioned version, slowed-down, and full of a style of guitar that was pretty distinctively un-Mayfield like. It was very much enhanced by the fact that I had just sat down with the man and conversed with him over drinks for forty-five minutes on any number of subjects, and never knew who he was.
	Mind blown.
	He never did a Curtis Mayfield song all night, and that was one of the coolest things about it. He played a lot of stuff that had influenced and inspired him, the same way he had influenced and inspired me. After the set, he stopped by the table as he was walking out. “Nice to meet you, Clarence. I’m playing the MGM Grand Sunday. Drop by, I’ll put you folks on the list.”
	“Yes, sir!” I said, “We will be there.”
	Truth be told, our return tickets were for Sunday night. I had to book new flights to get us home.
	It turns out there were a few notable musicians and celebrities lurking in the dark that night. Some of the band were from Kool & the Gang, along with Mayfield’s people. There was a rumor later that Rick James and Charlie Murphy were present, but it couldn’t have been when I was there. When Rick James is in a room, everyone knows it…
	We took the rest of our third bottle on the road with us back to the hotel. It had already been a momentous trip, and player’s ball hadn’t even gone down yet. 

Chapter 29 – The Great Reset

	Waking up in the morning was a little unreal. Aside from the pounding in my head, which was a fairly regular occurrence when you do powder to the point of having to drink yourself to sleep. I had mostly gotten away from smoking weed, which is when I am at my best. It didn’t even make a dent anymore. Nevertheless, I awoke to glory and splendor. Set and setting, my little stable of women bracketing me. Life was indeed good.
	Because I had somehow, inexplicably, gotten to where I was without doing any real dirt. Through a combination of savvy, luck, and hard work, I almost had the game sewn up already. No one was hurt, everyone benefitted. Win/win/win. Or at least I told myself that. With the clarity of time and distance, I have come full circle to ultimately conclude that the hustle as I played it was indeed an equitable arrangement for all. 
	Because Tokio is far from the average motherfucker. 
	I immediately felt inadequate. A fraud. Worst of all, I wasn’t at all ready for Player’s Ball, in any real sense. Up until that point, it was an abstract thing. Suddenly, it was a concrete wall. Man, you don’t know how bad I wanted to get up and hit a blast first thing in the morning. Drink me a cold ass-beer with it. Then maybe coffee. You know, like every day that ended in ‘y’, lately.
	What sort of half-ass mack would I have been, had I done that? A two-bit chump, eventually. Inevitably. With a two-girl stable. That’s just shy of being a one-hoe pimp. Because a one-hoe pimp, man, that’s your wife. She’s a slut, and you’re lazy. The fuck outta here. 
 	I looked at what I had around me. What I had goin’ on. What I could do with it. The potential I, myself, as a young and thriving pimp, had within me. I had to take a turn. 
	“Wake up, girls.”
	Two sleepy, doe-eyed beauties yawned and stretched themselves to full consciousness. 
	“Mmmm, good morning, Daddy,” Angela said.
	“Want us to do you, Daddy?” Morgan asked, as she had long ago learned to ask regularly. 
	“No. We have too much to do.”
	“Like what?” Morgan asked.
	I was already on the verge of getting upset at the questioning. 
	“Can we do some blow, Daddy?” Angela chimed in.
	A furrow crossed my brow, preceding something approaching a scowl.
	“Also no. You can both have some tonight. If you’re good girls and we knock it out of the park getting ready today.”
	“But…” Angela started. 
She managed to stop before my eyes even met hers. Luckily for her, I was actively concentrating on not losing my cool, feeling as I did at that moment. Not just the stress of the day (compounding the stress of the lifestyle, but I don’t like to complain), or the otherwise harmless inquiries from the two of them. It was my decision to try and dry up for the day that had me feeling the jones. They didn’t quite understand my decision, because ordinarily, on any given time off I had, the day definitely began with a coke and alcohol-fueled threesome. 
	Instead, I relaxed my face and said, “Don’t make Daddy get the flip-flop, babygirl.”
	“Yes, Sir,” she said, and they both slipped away to make coffee and shower.
	 I sat on my couch and tried to think. I mean, I started thinking about I how I didn’t actually seem to *think* anymore. Things were on autopilot, and I had no moves ahead of me. Tokio is better than that. Clarence, sorry.
	There were really only two ways to go from where I was. More girls, or higher rates. While I already had an eye on the first one, in retrospect, it’s likely that Morgan and Angela decided they didn’t need anyone else edging into their slightly twisted storybook world I had created for them. Understandable, even. Also not kosher, but what you gonna do? It represents a failing on my part, if anything. 
	I did have a few ideas regarding higher rates, starting with the production companies that had expressed interest. But I had a few more ideas in that regard, and a plan of action was beginning to develop. Shortly thereafter, it was enacted. The bigger picture would have to wait, but it began that day.
	“Girls, come in here.”
	They set down their mascara and lip gloss or whatever. Hot comb, I don’t know. I’m not a haberdasher. 
	“Yes, Daddy?” they both said in a sweet, melodic unison.
	“Tonight is a very important night, I hope you know. This is our chance to break into the big time. We need to come hard, and we need to come fresh. Dig?”
	“Yes, Daddy.”
	“Of course,” Morgan added.
	“So, whoever does the most and the best at putting tonight over the top gets a special reward. And that is also going to apply to weekly receipts. Now do your best, and make Daddy proud.”
	“Yes, Daddy!”
	They jumped up, giggling and play-fighting their way back to their previous locations. That little talk alone resulted in increased cash flow. I’m not even sure what their actual rewards were. Probably coke for Angela and extra alone time with Morgan. 
	I had to regain my edge. 
	I squeezed past the two of them and grabbed me two handfuls on the way. If I hadn’t been so foggy and put out that morning, I would have realized that starting the day with them both showering me would have been the perfect way to kick things off. But the hot water did me some good. I decided I had to get sharp before I went out to get sharp. I made sure I did a tight job with the razor, put bullshit cream on my elbows, extra deodorant, cologne. Morgan and Angela engaged in a discussion seeking my approval over what outfit I looked best in, and engaging them in a little friendly rivalry was already paying off.
	The upshot was that I looked pretty damn good. 
	They both waited to dress until I had picked something out for each of them, but that was the only part of their going out process that didn’t take long. They looked about as good as two human women can get. I know this much, they taught me the value of quality over quantity. I was way too spoiled to ever lower my standards.
	Their competition renewed when we went down to the lobby. They both scrambled to acquire newspapers and the like that would help us find the goods and services we required on this auspicious occasion. Vegas has tons of free classified ad sort of newspapers. Most of them are full of escorts.
	But Angela also had the foresight to bring the phone book in her oversized purse.
	“What first, Daddy? I think your suit.”
	She was exactly right. It was my attire that had spurred my initial panic. I had been thinking about it since we had encountered the two cats in the lobby. It wasn’t that my wardrobe was bad, although to me it now looked and felt like some garage sale hand-me-downs. Player’s Ball was meant to be over-the-top, next-level shit. A fashion show on Planet Pimp, with a soundtrack by Bootsy Collins. 
Houston was apparently three to five years behind the times compared to out west, I’m embarrassed to say. Now I was faced with not only getting up to date on things, but expected to go far beyond that. I had no fucking idea what I was doing. I had to play it off, and pull it off. It’s a good thing I hid the coke in the hotel room and put the sign on the door. 
I hailed a cab, and when we got in, I said, “Let’s roll uptown, first.” 
The driver nodded, and a ten-minute ride took us into the heart of things. But it was Caesar’s Palace, technically. A wild-ass mall called The Forum Shops. Neiman Marcus, Saks Fifth Avenue, Gucci. Plus, the watch and jewelry shops. Dumb-ass me had budgeted Houston prices, and that was at a hood-type suit store that I was used to. Not some Beverly Hills-level shopping spree. 
We looked. 
It was all so much to take in, really, at least as much time was spent goggling at the surroundings, which were surreal as hell. Grand lit fountains and statues, stone columns. It was as unlike a place you would expect to shop at as you can imagine. The suits we saw did look nice indeed, with modern styles and fabrics. I would be killing it in one of those, off the rack or not, back home. I squeezed the knot in my pocket, knowing it was only about eight thousand dollars now. Another miscalculation. 
Almost. Okay, was. But I got moves you don’t even know about yet. 
The highlight overall was the dresses, which were offered in a bewildering array of styles. The two of them were so excited thinking about which they wanted, it was a contagious atmosphere. Even the shop attendants were smiling. 
That, and the jewelry. So, there’s a change in atmosphere, in desire, between women looking at clothes, and women looking at jewelry. It’s an almost solemn occasion. Religious? A deep feeling of awe. Clothes are clothes. Gemstones are emotional. I let them stroll through the top two shop displays. Case after case of glittering diamonds and gold. I held both their hands as they occasionally squeezed mine and pointed out their favorites of every type. Morgan pointed at the wedding rings.
Something happened that spurred everything else on. It was subtle, and snowballed into a bigger decision. The girls had reached the end of the last set of cases, and were probably in sensory overload from seeing so many things they couldn’t have. They stopped a little short and started talking about lunch. When I turned to my right, away from them, I saw a piece that changed the rest of our trip entirely.
I handed the girls $20 each. “Get Daddy’s some gyros. No damn tomatoes. And you two get something. Then we’ll find a suit elsewhere. We can come back for dresses this afternoon.”
“Yes, Daddy!” came with two kisses on the cheek, and they were off. 
I faced the previously invisible white guy who had been following and watching us the entire time. “Can you show me this right here?” I asked him, pointing.
He sniffed. “That’s $4800.”
“Can. You. Show it to me?”
He looked more nervous than agitated, and I guess that worked in my favor. Goddamn. Out of the case, it was even more incredible. He tensed up a bit when I picked it up and tried it on, but to his credit, that is his job, and forty-eight hundred dollars is a lick.
Then I set it back down into the box.
“No taxes,” I told him, and pulled out my bankroll.
He didn’t challenge me on the issue, so I made it an even five. 
	“Would you like it giftwrapped, sir?”
	Suddenly I was ‘sir’. 
	“No, thanks,” I said, and put the things safely into my left pocket, leaving the boxes behind. Those gyros were good as hell.
	So uptown/upscale was a bust, to a degree. Much like my pockets. I hailed us a cab, and had the driver, a Sikh or maybe just a Pakistani dude with a weird moustache, take me to a bank. Aunt Til had taught me something about traveling with a lot of cash: don’t. I had significantly more cash, more than I should need for any reason, in the form of Traveler’s Checks.
	Banking wasn’t exactly simple back in the days. Or easy. Can you imagine a world with no ATMs or computerized banking? The problem with Traveler’s Checks is that they were limited to $1000 each. For whatever reason, you were also limited to $8000, or at least at the time, so I had gotten the max and then brought the girls to each do the same.
	$24,000. Just in case.
 	In case of what, I had no idea.
	It was an awkward few moments as I sent the girls back to the cab and stashed the various denominations in my suit pockets, doing my best to make it invisible. When I went back to the car, I had made up my mind. 
	“Is there a black part of town?” I asked the driver.
	“Yes.”
	“Take us there.”
	“Yes?”
	“Yes.”
	At which point, he turned around and drove off. And drove. And drove. After about twenty minutes, I said, “Hey, man. What’s the deal?”
	“Shhhh,” was all he said.
	I am not used to being shushed. I let it slide, and began paying attention to the ride. He wasn’t driving us in circles, just running up the tab. He was headed somewhere. But after fifteen *more* minutes, just as I was about to say something once again, he said, “Almost there.”
	Talk about segregated. North Las Vegas is another world away from Vegas proper. Yes, indeed, it was black. 
	“Black Vegas,” he said to me. Where you want to go?”
	Angela had already found the suit listings in the yellow pages. 
	“Uh,” I said, looking at the list. “Are these in north Las Vegas? Jefferson?”
	“Yes.”
	“Eucalyptus?”
	“No.”
	“Anderson?”
	“Yes.”
	“Martin Luther King?”
	He rolled his eyes at me in the mirror.
	“How much is the tab so far?”
	He looked. “Mmm, $47.25.”
	I threw him three twenties. “417 Jefferson.”
	That place was a “Suits Warehouse” kind of clearance place. Not shit to even try and look at in there. Something you wear for a court date. When we pulled up at the second one, the girls squealed when they saw the display. 
Slim’s was a rarity, an unabashed pimp suit store. Based on the name alone, I probably should have gone there first. Man, that place was wild. Every outlandish color and design you could conceive of in a fever dream was on display. Purple, fur-lined, neon. Hats as big as wagon wheels. Two-foot-long ostrich feathers. Big-ass platform shoes. Plus, they had racks of tube tops, cut-off shorts, hotpants. One-stop shopping for pimps and hoes alike.
The girls vied for my attention, each pointing out ridiculous ones they liked. After looking at several, I told them to go grab whatever they wanted off the racks while I considered it. But the more I thought about it, the more I began to realize that none of them were right for me. They felt too flamboyant for me, even for Player’s Ball. Certainly nothing I would otherwise choose to wear. I decided I wouldn’t be comfortable, because I wouldn’t be true to myself.
“Let’s check out some more stores, first,” I told them, and paid for their clothes. They were disappointed, having come together to agree that I would look best in this thick, furry white suit they both liked. Maybe if this was the north pole. But Vegas? Even at night, you would suffocate. I’d be smellin’ like some stank polar bear.
It was still pretty early, but the day was warming up already. The drive to MLK led us into a warehouse district. At the address, we were presented with a building the size of a city block. We drove around past the loading dock to the offices, and finally a single door off by itself. They were wholesalers. If not manufacturers.
“Shit,” I said, as we continued to circle the building. But the single door had said “Wong – Tailor, Designer”.
“Park here,” I told the driver. On a hunch, though, I took the girls with me. “We’ll be back.”
When I looked through the door, there was a single old Chinese man sitting on a couch reading a newspaper, with a cup of tea on the coffee table in front of him. If he noticed me, he didn’t make it apparent. Rather than just opening the door, which was to an office, informal décor or not, I knocked. 
He put his paper down and turned to me, and then motioned for me to come in. I told the girls to wait outside.
“Can I help you?”
“Yes, sir. I need a suit.”
“How many? 100? 500? You need to talk to the other offices.”
“No, sir. Just one. Custom.”
“Hmmm. Pretty expensive. Maybe $1000. Take two days.”
“Then $2000 should make it one day,” I said.
He raised his eyebrow.
	I peeled off twenty hundreds. “Do we have a deal?”
	“I can do it.”
	I offered him the money, but he waved it off. “Pick a style,” he told me, handing me a binder. As I started flipping through it, he took measurements and wrote them all down with notes. I think he was enjoying the challenge. I had to set the book down so he could measure my arms, and when he was done, I said, “Page three.”
	He nodded in agreement. “Come pick a fabric.” 
	I followed him through a hallway to a door that led into the warehouse complex. As we passed through a second door, I began hearing the whir of machines. The third door opened onto a room of what had to be a hundred women sewing. Some beautiful ones in there, too. Mostly Asians and latinas, but also some sisters. Hot as hell, even with fans and air conditioning. A literal sweatshop. I felt bad for them. I bet I could have walked out of there with a few of them if I spoke the language.
	We rounded the corner to a wall of fabrics. All of the usual pinstripes, houndstooth, polka dots, plus everything from silks to burlap-like hemp, in every color there was. It was too much to take in. I started flipping through the samples they had hanging, unable to make a decision. Finally, I found this dark blue Asian pattern. It was thick and pleated. There were flowers in it, but not in any flowery way. Masculine flowers.
	“This one,” I said.
	“You sure? That’s a wall covering.”
	I nodded, and he walked me back to the office.
	“Come back, six o’clock.”
	Shit.
	“Thank you,” I said, walking out.
	We had hours to kill, a running cab meter, and Janice in her editorial wisdom thinks this chapter is already overly long. “Tokio, the American attention span is in a steady decline. People will begin to not only speak in soundbites, but ‘think’ in them,” she once said to me. I wish she had been wrong about all that.

Chapter 30 – Suited

	Long story short, we got back right at the agreed upon time, worn out but still in good spirits, the girls having collected a trunk full of trinkets over the course of the day. My man was laid out on the couch, but not asleep. In fact, he was on his feet before I hit the door. This time, I took the girls in with me, our driver long since resigned to catering to us all day for what was now probably a week’s pay.
	He played it cool, but his eyes got wide for a moment when Morgan and Angela overpowered the room with their presence, as they tended to do. 
	“It turned out nice,” he said. “I’m happy.” As if that was the most important thing about it all. I think that’s real cool. 	
	“I have two accessories you want. Five hundred. Firm.”
	This didn’t feel like a hustle, or I wouldn’t have gone into anything sight unseen. But a player follows his gut. “Of course,” I said, firmly, but nonchalantly. What’s a twenty-five percent surprise surcharge among friends? Man, did my instincts turn out to be right.
	“Please,” he indicated the sofa to the girls, “sit.” 
	While they did, he stepped through the door to his inner workshop, which, not to stereotype the guy or anything, I later in life realized smelled like opium. He rolled out a dress form thing, and when the girls saw it, dual gasps were heard. He had the pants on his arm, but the jacket itself was something straight out of a movie. Both were now outlined with stitches of some kind of thread that shimmered like mother of pearl, and the effect was dramatic set against the dark blue background of the fabric. It was invisible when in shadows, then exploded almost as if glowing when light hit them.
	But the cut. Son. The overall style was heavily Asian. There was the Mao sort of collar, I think that’s what it’s called, and there was a long tail coming down the back. The shoulders, though. I swear this cat had seen a Superfly movie or two in his day, because they were zooted out and wide, like more or less recent pimp style. Even the fabric itself became more masculine by the cut. It was dark, and thick, cut to my dimensions, but sized with room to move around in it. 
It’s a very pimp thing to wear something that’s generally feminine and pull it off. Silk, shit like that. Pimps are like drag queens, sometimes. But by some strange transformation, the dress-like tail and blue embroidered flowers made the whole thing look like the most masculine suit imaginable. Warrior gear.
	“Let’s fit it,” he said, and went to his inner workshop again, returning with socks, underwear, and an undershirt. What I had assumed and accepted was his deluxe upgrade. The work was looking so good already, I scarcely registered the thought. If he had hustled me, furthermore, he had earned it, either way.
	“Too much tea,” he said. “I need the bathroom.”
	It was his polite way of letting me strip with dignity.
	The girls of course didn’t need to be told anything, and had me out of my street clothes in no time, carefully setting them aside. By the time he returned, I was already up to the undershirt and pants, which also had some mobility included, and were held up with a drawstring/tie, which was a nice touch. They were damn heavy, like he had kind of indicated when he pointed out it was upholstery fabric… 
The pants cuffs flared out in a diamond shape, and came together in a point at the top of my foot. Again, like the shoulders and the lapels, they indicated a familiarity with present black street culture. Then again, this cat lived and worked in the thick of things in North Las Vegas, so I shouldn’t have been so surprised. Individuals, I have found, are impossible to pigeonhole and stereotype. 
 He put the jacket on me himself, and it really set the whole thing off like a damn bomb. Because, not to brag, but I was cut better than any damn dress form. I mean, it didn’t have titties or anything, it was for men. But I had nearly twice the shoulders, and my biceps looked massive in the thick, custom-cut material. The whole thing closed up with three dark wooden knobs through loops on the opposing side. It was the most black-asian thing I can imagine, and I hope I have done this man’s work some justice, because it was some game-changing shit for sure. Embroidered over the heart was a small dragon in the same shimmering thread.
“Oh my god, Daddy!” Morgan finally said. 
“Literally the best,” Angela agreed, smiling with excitement. 
“Man”, I said, “I am loving this.”
He directed me to a full-length mirror, the kind with three sides. It looked even better viewed that way. I am indeed a pretty motherfucker.
I twisted my shoulders and settled into it. It felt like light armor, lending the wearer a sense of lessened vulnerability. An interesting effect. I turned around a bit, and then stepped away. I wasn’t too much of a preener, another reason I didn’t really fit the pimp mold all that well. I slipped into my Hurachies, the legendary flip-flops the girls lived in some slight comedic fear of, as they had tire tread soles, and could deliver a memorable spanking if need be.
“Ah, wait. Almost forgot. Accessories.”
He came back with a cane, and a pink box like for a birthday cake.
It was a hard, dark black wood that I will call ebony, since I have no idea what it actually was. Inset into the handle and octagonal cane was the same sort of stitching pattern as the suit. He had based the entire design around the cane itself. Even the dragons on both were of the same style. The outlines all shimmered with the same brilliance as the thread on the suit, furthermore. I was awestruck.
I felt the handle in my hand, and it was slightly rougher than the finish on the rest of it, lending it some friction. Then he reached out and rotated the handle while holding the bottom part. When he pulled my hand up, a narrow, shining blade rose out of it. After it started, he moved away, and it slid out with seemingly no effort. It was unreal. As it came free, it literally made a sound like you would imagine Excalibur or something would. Like a sword in a movie.
“Very sharp,” he said. “Deadly.”
I nodded and fitted it back into the disguised sheath.
“Now, sit,” he told me. I positioned myself on the couch between the girls, and he opened the cake box in front of us like it was a big piece of jewelry. But this was even better than that.
High tops, with fresh, wide black laces, made of the same material as the suit. He knew black people better than I did, I think, because this was some shit I didn’t know I wanted.
“Chuck Taylor All-Stars,” he said. “I made a copy for, uh, hobbyist purposes.”
“Holy shit,” Morgan said, and the girls put them on me, giggling.
I stood up and put my weight on them, pacing around a bit.
“Shit. These feel ten times better than Chucks. Ole thin-ass soles.”
He nodded. “We can sell them for half the price, too. But,” he sighed, “Gangster shit.”
I looked at him, surprised, and we stared eye to eye in a brief player moment. 
	“This suit is incredible. The shoes make it work twice as well. Thank you, my man.”
	We shook hands, and then he caught me entirely off-guard when I tried to pay him.
	“Perhaps we can make other arrangements?” he briefly indicated the girls with his eyes, so subtly that they didn’t even realize what was happening. He was so far ahead of me on that, I kicked myself for never even considering it. Plus, that was almost the price of a damn new car. I would have only angled for a discount.
	Tokio’s discount pussy.
	“Bet,” I said, nodding. The girls changed me back into my other clothes, oblivious, and he even put them onto hangers with those dry cleaner bag things to keep them nice.
	“I’ll be in the car,” I told them, and gave them a look that conveyed all they needed to know.
	Three minutes later, no more than four, I swear, they came running out, giggling, and climbed in on either side of me, the $2500 still in my hand. The ride back to Las Vegas proper was a joyous one, indeed. I had just pulled off the greatest hustle of my life, and I had the proof to wear. It started to feel like tonight was my night.
	Even the fact that I had promised the girls a return to the upscale shops on the strip (and it’s important that a pimp keeps his word, never forget) was but a minor aside in the course of the day. In fact, it proved to be fairly momentous in and of itself, as the girls now had a theme to work with, and picked out differently-colored but matching Asian-inspired dresses that not only roughly corresponded with aspects of my suit, but were shorter than normal, and shimmering. Their anatomies strained them to their absolute limits, furthermore.
	The driver helped us unload the trunk and clothes. He told us he was going to take a nap and be back to take us to the ball. He was a part of the whole thing, by that point. I was damn happy to be back at the hotel. Not that I was there to rest.
	As tired as I was feeling, things were looking up.
	(*Now* Janice says I am deliberately messing up the pacing like a toddler given editorial control, but she can kiss my ass.)

Chapter 31 – Grand Entrance

	Damn it feels good to be a gangsta. Know what feels even better? Getting back to your domicile after a long, hard day. It had been extraordinarily productive, all goals met, but we were just getting started. Truth be told, all I wanted to do was take a damn nap. All three of us did, in fact. With zero coordination, we dropped the loot they had acquired at the door, hung the suit, and collapsed on the bed, letting out sighs of relief.
	No rest for the wicked. Very little, at least. We may have closed our eyes for twenty minutes or less. Exhausted, yes, but the manic energy of the night was building already. None of us could sleep as such, but we topped off our batteries to a degree. All relaxation screeched to a halt when I opened my eyes and said, “Cook us up a good, quick dinner, girls. We will need our strength. After we eat, we can do a few lines and get ready…”
	Them damn girls flew out of bed. In record time, steaks were sizzling, potatoes were frying, broccoli was prepped and boiling. With Texas toast to sop up the juices. It wasn’t quite Aunt TIl’s soul food for the soul, but close enough. Plus, it felt like the exact right meal for the occasion.  I almost jumped in the shower to save time, but thought better of it, remembering my missed opportunity earlier. Tonight, everything had to be right. Instead, I sat on the couch and just thought about things. Played out endless scenarios in my head. It was partially fantasizing, and partially strategic planning. 
	I was still deep in thought when the girls set down three plates on the coffee table, along with a big glass of milk. Even the portions were perfect, with a half of a ribeye for me, and about a quarter each for them. We needed fuel, but getting stuffed wouldn’t help our situation. I was lucky to get them to eat anything at all. 
	But we were hungry, for sure. I had had too much nervous energy that day to eat, and I think the girls were just conscious of the fact that they would soon be on display to the world, and didn’t want to bloat themselves on fast food and Cokes that day. Good girls make decisions on your behalf, without your direct input. In the areas they are allowed volition, of course.
	To their credit, the girls were patient. I made them clean their plates, and I finished mine. We might have ate a little fast, but we ate. I knew where their minds were at, though. They didn’t say anything, but as soon as I was done, they took everything back to the kitchen, washed and put the dishes away, and sat back down on the couch. They never said anything, but I got out my stash box while they were busy, and set us up two lines each. Fat ones. Doubles. I probably had more quality coke than we could reasonably do in two days of binging. 
	Now, want to hear some of that cosmic, unbelievable shit? Without really thinking, I switched the radio on low, which I had already tuned to a Vegas R & B station. Do you know what the fuck I heard? A familiar bassline, with some cool ass drums building behind it. Pusherman. And it had just started. At that moment, it felt like a sign. In retrospect, of course they were playing a lot of Mayfield that week. He was in town, and doing a big show. Still, I don’t think people should dismiss all coincidences. It definitely felt more significant than it probably was, in this case. But it was positive, and that was enough. I would take all the good omens and signs I could get.
	Thinking ahead, though, I calculated how much was a reasonable amount to bring. Which was silly. A gram of cocaine or a hundred grams of cocaine, popped was popped. I hadn’t really considered anyone other than the three of us, which was a lack of foresight on my part. Then again, this night was about us, solely. The rest of the world was a mere stage. True to their nature, though, they finished their portions before I did mine. I bagged up about half of what I had, then chopped three more lines, leaving them on a mirror.
	“Let’s take a shower,” I said, finishing off what I had lined up for myself. “Before we leave, we can hit one more rail. Then it’s on an as needed basis.”
	“Yes, Daddy!” They undressed each other for my benefit, a routine we had worked on for when they worked together as escorts. When they were bare, they knelt and faced me, which was my cue to let them undress me.
	That shower was hot, and it wasn’t just the temperature of the water. I had consciously denied them orgasms for a few days now, and had even given myself the same treatment starting with the day before. It was part of my overall strategy for keeping ourselves on top of our game. So, it started coming out in the wash, so to speak, as they continued their routine, soaping each other up lavishly before directing their attention toward me. The only detail that detracted from the experience was their shower caps.
	I’m gonna assume you know what goes into hair care for black women. I think I touched on that already, to a degree. But if their hair had gotten wet, it’s basically a multi-hour process to get it right again. I’m not a wig fan, spoiled as I was by Morgan’s luxurious mane alone. But I can see the value and utility of them. Not to mention being able to transform into someone else entirely in seconds.
	I did spend a few minutes allowing them to showcase their talents. I can say this much. They were definitely ready for prime time, silver screen stuff. Let’s just say I am passionate about my work, and they were apt pupils. But the one thing I couldn’t allow them to do was finish me off. 
Fellas, this is something you should take note of. Jerking off is pretty much a daily thing for most men. At least once. Sometimes, even if they are with a woman on a daily basis. It’s just a male thing. At the same time, you are doing yourself a disservice. If you’re single, and jerking off daily, you are wearing down the very edge you need to acquire a suitable companion in the first place. It was almost an extension of that high school football player mentality of not expending your vital energies before an important game. But more focused, and more accurate. When you stop taking the easy, lazy way out of handling your own business, you’ll find that growing need inside of you transforming you in various ways. If you instead revert to your hand every night, well, you’ve kinda made your choice, in a sense. 
	As a result, we were like three prowling panthers. We had the energy, but with no particular goal in mind. The rest would be fate. 
	After they dried me off, I told them to get dressed, and I would put my own clothes on. I was ready to take on the night. It didn’t take them long, of course, and their matching dresses were already having the desired effect on me alone. I’m not sure I was ever prouder of those two than at that moment. I wish you could take snapshots of your past and revisit those moments for real, again and again, because, other than time with Til and Maxxy, it stands out as one of the shining moments of my life.
	Like I said, it was some damn good coke. It was a moment of overall euphoria. 
	Given the luxury of spending a few extra minutes on themselves instead of having to dress Daddy as though he was a toddler, they put more attention into their makeup and hair. Ordinarily, they wore minimal make-up.  They didn’t need it, I felt. They had considerable natural beauty. An overly made-up whore is garish, furthermore. But tonight was different, and they understood that without discussion. 
	I don’t fuck with dummies. These two somehow added Asian accents to their make-up. Then they put their hair up in buns. When they walked back in on me, I was buttoning up my jacket, unable to resist looking at myself in the full-length mirror all hotels seem to very conveniently have. Which is almost weird, as how many people have them at home? Kinda makes sense, though. More than the damn bibles they put in every room.
	“Daddy!” Morgan said. “You look amazing!”
	I did.  
	“Ooh, just one thing!” Angela said, and went to the kitchen. I guess for accuracy’s sake, I should point out that this was more like a full-blown condo than a hotel room. It definitely was a lick, and that extra day cost me almost as much as the whole weekend. But when she came back, she held something behind her. “Turn around,” she told Morgan. 
	When she did, she slid two black ceramic chopsticks into her bun. It was the perfect, ultimate accent. Then she handed another pair to her and turned around for the same treatment. Woah. I didn’t think they could look any better, but it was weird how such a little detail could add so much to a look. Okay, nowadays, I guess this sort of thing is frowned upon, by some. “Cultural appropriation.” Or, as I call it, an homage. Parody or not, offensive or not, they looked fucking incredible. Even if Asian women had their exact same dimensions, these two looked better. 
	“Now you, Daddy,” Angela said, and got behind me. I knew she wasn’t gonna put no chopsticks in my hair, but I had no idea where she was going with this. She grabbed a section, and made a topknot, securing it with a modest black ponytail holder. Afro samurai!
	It was perfect. Everything was. Superstitious me took all of it as a good sign.
	Thinking about this “cultural” stuff that goes on nowadays, I now find it somewhat amusing that this Chinese gentleman outfitted a black man in Japanese-styled attire. Especially given the history those two countries have between each other. So, I feel this is supporting evidence of the at least potential positivity of cultural mash-ups. Or maybe I’m too crass to understand the similarities between the two as well as the differences. 
	The gray areas interest me, anymore in life. I predict that someday some white actor will play a black man or something in a film (if it happens before such a thing becomes unthinkable), and pull it off so well that it can’t be honestly criticized. Or maybe it will happen in reverse. I’m not sure why men dressing up as women is then considered fine and dandy, thinking about it. I’m looking at you, every actor in England. I think general inconsistency bothers me. If you’re telling some actor/actress they can’t perform at the edges of their craft, then you’re in effect telling me that I can’t either. Tokio don’t take well to people telling him what he can and can’t do. I guess I kinda apply that to others as a result. 
Intent, however, counts for a lot in this realm. I’ll slap the shit out of you if I see you in blackface with big red lips. For real. Oh, we ain’t forgot about that Amos and Andy minstrel show bullshit, not by a long chalk. Motherfuckers.
Damn. Okay. Sidetracked myself. I guess that’s what a book is. Taking the long way around a story.
I checked my bank after admiring the three of us for a few moments longer. “Blast off, girls,” I said. We hit the remaining lines, wiped our noses, and were out the door. I probably should have kicked down my boy, because he was there on time, but was asleep behind the wheel, engine still running, air blowing hard. You can’t let the heat get you in Vegas. It’s kinda like Texas in that regard. Don’t ever make the mistake of turning off your motel room air conditioner in the morning in Texas, or you will likely never cool it off again until midnight. 
But this wasn’t his cab. It was a Town Car stretch limo, black as night, shiny as a diamond.
“Bro!” he said after he was awake enough to check us out. This cat was in a damn suit himself, some shit straight out of Slim’s. Lime fucking green, ruffled shirt. Matching top hat on the seat beside him. He looked ridiculous, and at the same time, it was the coolest shit. More of that positive cultural mixing, I think, although I can see how it could upset some people. But, what, you’re mad at someone for adopting pimp style? You protecting the pimps’ feelings? Are all pimps black?
He was on his own at the ball, though. My goodwill can only extend so far. Plus, he didn’t get down and open the door.
So, we got in the back, and planned our entrance. The girls would sit on my right side and exit first, flanking me as we did our walk.
“Ay, man. You’re gonna have to open the door for us when we get there.”
“No problem, bro,” was all he said as he pulled off.
It was a great little ride, which lasted all of ten minutes. Hardly enough time to us to prepare mentally. I realize that sounds kinda, I don’t know, weak. I think the girls were fine. I was a mess. But my exterior couldn’t reflect that. I couldn’t relay my concerns, assess my fears verbally. I couldn’t be weak. I didn’t have Aunt Til to lean on. 
“Okay, one more,” I told the girls. I was too nervous, and I didn’t see any other options. I applied a little more chemical band-aid to the problem.
I lined us out another rip of what I had pre-chopped, me first. The girls were enthused, anyway. They weren’t worried about anything, at that point. Which is why my attitude mattered so much. Before I put the case away, though, I lined out one more and knocked on the window between us and the driver. 
He rolled it down and said, “Yes, bro?”
Morgan leaned forward and held the mirror, handing him a straw. He glanced back and sideways at her in skepticism, and then shrugged, polishing it off all in one go.
“Whoooooooo!”
My man had never did it before in his life.
“Bro. Fucking bro!”
And just like that, we were there. I could see the Imperial Palace up ahead and on the right, and even from a distance, you could see there was an event. It was a cusp. A turning point. I could have let my (entirely baseless) fears sweep me away, or I could man the fuck up. I set my jaw as if I was entering a war zone.
The whole silly front was demolished in the first minute.
The cars! Two ahead of us in line was a white stretch Caddy limo. But this thing had rims. It wasn’t a rental. Behind that was a goddamn Silver Shadow Rolls with Colorado plates. These cats were not fucking around. At all. I was already losing my self-consciousness (coke is also good about that), and just getting caught up in the scene.
There were throngs of people on either side of the entrance. The most colorful bunch in existence. It was hard to even focus on the beautiful women, each determined to flaunt their assets in the biggest way possible, because the dudes were dressed so flamboyantly. Every time someone got out of a vehicle, they all whooped and hollered and cheered. 
We were next.
They got even louder when my man got out from behind the wheel, and tipped his top hat to them before putting it on. Even our driver was a pimp! They were rolling, and I don’t think it had ever happened before. Plus, he was kinda geekin’ and feelin’ it hard. He couldn’t contain his elation, and it translated into some elaborate motions on his end, as he opened the door and extended his hand to help Morgan out, then bowing and gesturing with his top hat, welcoming her arrival.  The crowd ate that shit up, and got even louder when Angela followed.
I don’t know if this was something they planned, or it was spontaneous, but before they let me out, they turned to each other, embraced, and kissed deeply and slowly in front of everyone. This brought on a new round of shouts and even applause. It was somehow the perfect thing to do at the moment. Then they backed up on either side, and I emerged, cane first. 
What I got instead of cheers, for the most part, was a lower sort of rumble. It was kinda respectful, even. I got the feeling that they sensed I wasn’t someone to trifle with. I’m not sure what it was, really, or why. But it was cool. I wasn’t whistled and yelled at like some hot girl, although they did herald my entrance. A tiny, subtle shift, but it had a big impact on me. By the time I was standing upright, my chest was puffed out, my jaw was set into game mode, and every motion was measured and smooth. 
The girls both bowed to me as I emerged, and it was cool as fuck. While I had envisioned us all three walking in, arm in arm, Morgan and Angela apparently had different plans. 
“You go first, Daddy,” Morgan whispered.
A pimp’s life is a series of small crossroads, all the time. I guess you can say that about anyone, really. But most of y’alls crossroads are what car to buy, where to get a job. Shit like that. Mine was whether to slap the shit out of her right in front of God and country for having the audacity to literally TELL me to do something. But after that half-second where I almost reacted poorly, I knew she was merely offering sound advice, albeit phrased poorly.
I made an attempt at a strut down the carpet. Nothing all exaggerated. Just a tiny bit of swagger to my usual step. Morgan and Angela fanned out and flanked me, keeping in step a few measured feet behind me. It was a highly respectful move, and I had almost fucked the whole night up over it. As I walked, I could hear people talking to each other about me, trying to have discussions over the noise of the crowd. I couldn’t really make out even a full sentence from anyone, but I heard a lot of, “Yo, that’s…” and the like, as people tried to put a name to my face, or recognize what city I was from. 
I don’t think anyone there knew who I was, although some certainly seemed to think they did. “Freshest muhfukka alive…” was the fragment I heard that stuck with me the most. It had to be the shoes, money. But I was getting pumped up, and I was only halfway to the door. The roar doubled, and I had to turn around and see why. Behind me was an incredible Cadillac. No car in a movie could ever hope to eclipse it. And you know who the fuck stepped out from behind the wheel?
Isaac motherfucking Hayes.
Y’all already know, musicians mean far more to me than any actor. If anything could even come close to hanging with Mayfield (who *was* Superfly, in my mind), it was being in proximity to the man I considered Shaft. Talk about your mind being blown. At that point, I don’t think I would have been surprised to run into Bootsy and George Clinton, if not James Brown. 
Hayes threw up both arms in a V for victory, and everyone went nuts. He tossed his keys high in the air behind him like he could give a fuck, and the valets scrambled to catch them. This big, bald motherfucker drove his own car. He had a chain on that looked like it weighed a pound, the first dookie rope chain I had ever seen, years before they reached national consciousness with, I don’t know, Run-DMC or Salt-n-Pepa or whoever. He was wearing the white furry coat the girls had tried to convince me to wear, and rocking it like a champ. 
Meanwhile, I am standing there, half turned around, frozen like a deer on the highway. 
He didn’t walk the carpet. He went up one side of the crowd, slapping palms, nodding, smiling, and just having a great celebrity moment. A legend. I had to shake myself out of my stupor and play it off. Isaac Hayes. Cool. But it took everything I had to look away and walk inside.
There was a single door locked open, with velvet ropes extended out on either side diagonally, making a little funnel. Surprisingly, access was controlled by one tall, thin cat with a single gold loop earring in his left ear, and a kerchief on his head. He looked like a Barbary pirate. You just knew this dude had a big, ugly knife on him somewhere. The scars on his face suggested that not only would he use it, he would enjoy it.
And he was all smiles. 
“A bill each, brother,” was all he said. 
I peeled off five, and he gave me the nod, while slipping it into his interior suit pocket. Game recognizes game. Whoever he was, he was clearly a beast to be a one-man security team there. As soon as we were inside and past him, we could only stop and turn around and continue to soak in the spectacle. Hayes had completed his circuit up and down the sidelines. When he reached the door (and I noticed he didn’t have to pay shit to get in), he turned around, and pointedly and exaggeratedly pulled out a huge knot of twenties. They couldn’t have been hundreds. Couldn’t have been, I told myself.
He unfolded the stack flat, held it up at eye level, and with a rapid movement of his other hand, bills began to fly through the air and land on the ground. The first cat I ever knew to literally make it rain money.  The pimps kept their cool. It’s what we do. 
The hoes went wild.
They started running up on him, and in seconds, there were at least thirty women at his feet, crawling on the ground, snatching them from the air. All I could see were asses, titties, and money flying. And he kept that shit up until the last one dropped. Then he turned around and walked inside, smooth as shit.
I think my mouth was hanging open. 
	We were standing there dumbfounded when he walked straight up to me and said, “Excuse me, cousin,” and pushed on through between us sideways. It was both a friendly and aggressive gesture. If anyone else there had tried to pull that shit on anyone else there, it could have been a war. He made it clear where he was in the scheme of things, because he did it without a care in the world. The first five minutes of Player’s Ball was already bigger than anything the three of us had ever experienced. And we were barely even through the doors yet.

Chapter 32 – Best Worst Night of My Life

	I bet you were all prepared to read about the biggest night of Tokio’s life. If you don’t know already, life ain’t that simple. Nothing is, and if it seems like it is, it’s an illusion, and you should check yourself. Instead, this was a bittersweet turning point. A hollow, and Janice tells me, Pyrrhic victory. What I should do is tell you all what you want to hear. How I killed it at Player’s Ball, became the force to be reckoned with that I am today, the end.
	Life ain’t like that. And although life is, yes, primarily bullshit anyway, I would be doing you a grave disservice. If life is to have any meaning at all, there has to be some truth, somewhere. The more I learned about things I had never considered before from Brad and Leo, primarily, although Dana himself is a pretty amazing philosopher with more than a smattering of knowledge acquired from his brother’s proximity, the more I realize that all of life is an illusion. From the things we see, hear, touch, smell, and taste, to the chemical reactions in our brain which control our actions. It’s all kinda… fake.
	At the same time, this is as real it can get for us. At some point, we have to accept the base reality and proceed from there. So, while I have always been forthright and upfront to this point, I will let you know that here is where I faltered in my storytelling. Or almost did. Conscience won out. Stroking my own ego at the expense of reality is an insult to the universe itself.
	This was the night I lost my soul. What little I retain today is a fragment of who I once was. 
	So, there we were. Dressed to the nines, feelin’ fine. There was a bandstand at the back of the ballroom, and I heard that they were tuning up and getting ready to play. This time, I put out my elbows, and the three of walked in that direction, led only by my movements. As we got closer, Angela, “Ooh, Daddy, can we get a drink?”
	Fuck yes, we can get a drink. I needed several. Even my cocaine confidence was wearing a trifle thin. The girls got some fruity concoctions, and I had a Long Island Ice Tea. Take it from me, you don’t want to drink too many of those in a hurry. Especially in Vegas. But moderation, strangely enough, was the order of the day. I threw the cat a fifty, and we resumed our trek to the stage area.
	We got what I considered close enough and stopped, sipping our drinks and taking in the scene. I even dropped my babygirls a little bump each onto the side of my fist. It was an incredible night, by all accounts. When we started the evening, we may have never been happier.
	They occupied themselves by commenting to each other on every girl that walked past us, while I just studied the band setting up. I have a deep fascination with music, although the idea of me attempting to play anything myself always seemed silly and fantastical. It was somehow crucial to existence when anyone else played music, but the idea of me doing so myself seemed frivolous, somehow. 
	So, the cat who appeared to be the band leader didn’t look like much. He was kinda older, kinda fat. He was wearing just some normal ass clothes, as were the rest of his band. They seemed really out of place compared to anyone else there. And they didn’t seem to know or care. That’s real pimp shit. The rest of us were outlandish, strutting our stuff, proclaiming our self-perceived greatness to the world. Instead, I watched him tune a guitar, a beautiful big-body Gibson that looked more like it belonged in the hands of Roy Orbison, Roy Clark. Any of the Roys. It wasn’t chosen for looks, anymore than his nondescript blue jeans and baggy generic t-shirt.
	But the care he showed that guitar sound alone, began to affect me. He seemed to approach the world with a reverence one normally associates with a Buddhist monk. It was solemn. After a long while, he seemed satisfied, and then approached each of his bandmates one by one, and conferred with them individually. It was a few words, and some nodding, but it was obvious that he took his craft seriously, and respected the fuck out his compatriots. 
	Now, you gotta understand, this wasn’t no rock band. No bass/drums/guitar/vocals bullshit. Eventually, I counted twelve musicians on stage. Horns were still a thing, at least for certain genres, falling as we did at the end of the disco era. Black bands, anyway, were serious and large. I will again cite P-Funk as example, or James Brown. In fact, The Cosmic Truth was the only black band I knew about at the time that maxxed out at five members.
	One thing this dude didn’t do was acknowledge any of us in the crowd at all. He might as well have been in a rehearsal studio, practicing. We didn’t seem to exist. The soundchecks had begun, and that brought some of the more raucous and vocal elements of the crowd to the fore. People were starting to call out requests, bullshit like Chic, Diana Ross, and fuckin’ Lipps, Incorporated. Now, no one knew who the fuck Lipps, Incorporated were. But they were calling out for Funky Town. 
	Okay, I mean, that shit was cool. But it was sort of an obvious slap in the face to this man, all the same, if you were hip to any sort of bigger picture. He was undeterred, however. 
	He stood near the edge of the stage with his back to us, and pointed to each member in turn, left to right, as they gave a quick sputter of notes on their respective instruments. This cat was a true bandleader. Almost a conductor. His band might have been variously high as hell, on pills, drinking on stage, but they were as disciplined as any military marching band. Finally, he raised both hands, and everyone hit a sustained note at once while the drummer brought in two cymbals in a crescendo, raising everything to a fever pitch. 
	When he brought his hands back down, all sound ceased. The people now packed around the stage all fell silent as well. Then he turned around, and spoke into the mic as everyone jumped in on the one, perfect synchrony. The only other band I ever saw perform with that level of tightness was Frank Zappa.
	What, you didn’t think Tokio knew about Zappa? I may have gotten into him a bit late, and he struck me as a tad racist, if even unintentionally, for often adopting some horrific parody of black speech. White people just thought that shit was hilarious in the seventies, and I’m sad to say Zappa was the primary proponent of the whole thing. I realize that it wasn’t malicious, as such. A lot of white people literally want to be black on some level, for some reason, and it expresses itself in terrible ways. Zappa had the whole country (the male subset that listened to rock at the time, anyway) talking like that. So, you will have to understand that I feel he was a pretty impressive musician nevertheless, for me to overlook that shit.
	While we’re on the subject, Cheech and motherfucking Chong did some fairly foul shit back in the days, too. Maybe I’m a bit hypersensitive on the subject, as they skewered a lot of groups and people with their humor. But “Basketball Jones” is sort of hilarious and painful at the same time. I don’t believe a lot of us looked at it that way back then, but in retrospect, yeah. It’s pretty disrespectful. George Harrison played on that fucking track. The same guy who considered himself some sort of enlightened guru of a man.
	Any fucking way… 
	He looked right out at us as he began playing, and addressed the crowd directly. 
	“Evening, folks. Y’all look wonderfully ridiculous. I hope you enjoy the set. I might have helped set this all in motion, and I now regret it. But as long as the check clear on Friday, right, players?”
	Cheers erupted at the mention of money, and acknowledgement of the hustler lifestyle. They didn’t even seem to realize they were being subtly berated. My man had a honey voice. The first song was pretty complex, compared to shit on the radio nowadays. The song was “Tell Me Why Our Love’s Gone Cold”, and it was poignant. To even be singing about love in a place like this seemed absurd. 
	His emotion was palpable. The music seemed almost recognizable, but I couldn’t place it. Must just be some cool-ass local band was all I figured. Unknown, undiscovered cats playing for exposure. This went on for a few songs. A few girls danced, the players profiled, but it was almost a non-event. People drifted away over time, and the band was soon to be relegated to background ambience, if that kept up.
	Not that my man cared. I mean, he had a dude doing a minute-long flute solo. It was almost contemptuous of the people in attendance. I didn’t take it personally, for whatever reason. I was intrigued. Even more so when three immaculately-coifed black women walked on stage to their mics, wearing gold, sparkling dresses that hugged their forms and extended almost to their ankles. 
	He had been fucking with us. As soon as they hit the next track, with about a second separating the two songs, the crowd raised an ear-shattering cheer, almost like a single unit. It was the theme to ‘The Mack’.
	Holy shit. It was Willie Hutch himself. 
	This song, if y’all don’t know, laid down so much on us, all at once. Hutch and The Mack were the completion of the holy trinity of pimping and ‘blacksploitation’. Shaft, Superfly, and The Mack. You get one guess as to which song meant the most to pimps.
	It was so energetic, and there was such a surge of enthusiasm, all at once, even the pimps lost their cool, to a degree. They started doing that Soul Train shit where everyone formed a line and danced/walked away from the stage in pairs (or more), doing their damnedest to outshine the next group. Truth be told, it was what most pimps lived for. You don’t dress like a fuckin’ peacock if you don’t want to be noticed.
	To give you some idea of how monumental this was, not just to me, but to everyone in attendance, our Mr. Hayes himself made his way front and center, and actually bowed down slightly to Hutch. In return, Willie kissed his fingertips and pointed at Isaac in acknowledgement. This was some historical shit going down. Little did I know then, it signified the end of an era.
	It was going down like some choreographed video. When that track ended, along with the pimp struttery on display, he went into “Mack Man”, which is some gritty, slow, dirty shit. This was the true spirit of Player’s Ball, right here. 
	When he said, “You better get out there and get me my money”, cheers erupted once again. 
	Man. Fuck. I could almost see his eyes watering. I felt that shit so hard. Not what everyone else was feeling. But what he was feeling. It was deep regret. I got the sense that his biggest success in life was also his biggest failing. His cautionary tales instead ended up being the promotion of a culture he didn’t enjoy at all. And now, here he was, eight years or so later, and witnessing the culmination of something he was personally involved in creating.
	Not that pimping came in with that era of music and movies. Not by a long scratch. But it did explode, and it was harmful. At that time, any two-bit wannabe hustler out there was trying to make it happen. It definitely led to even more negative shit than was already associated with The Life. I was so deeply affected that I had to take a long rip, right out of my little amber bottle. I think half of that thing went up my nose at once.
	I didn’t even acknowledge the girls, who silently requested some with their eyes. I was in the middle of a life crisis, to a degree. I was of two minds, and they couldn’t be resolved into one mindset. A few songs later, “Slick” just bagged on each and every motherfucker in the room. He was calling us pimps shit, and our women stupid bitches. Right to our faces. 
	He was mostly correct. 
	I stood there and watched in a great cloud of melancholy, right until the last songs. He actually went back and played “The Mack” AGAIN. Giving the people what they wanted. It went over even bigger the second time.
	He ended, though, with “Now That It’s All Over”, which was slow and somber. It made me think my ass off, and I wonder how many other people there were feeling what I was. At the time, it seemed like only he and I knew the deeper meaning of everything he was saying. When it ended, before anyone even started clapping, he said, “Goodnight, y’all. Enjoy ‘The Life’, because it’s the only one you’ll ever get…”
	It took everyone by surprise, resulting in only a smattering of applause. He turned his back on us once again, and walked off. Literally, because as far as I know, he never did another show like that again. Not another Player’s Ball, and from what I have been able to piece together, he never performed any of that music again in his life. He was telling us something, but we were all too high on ourselves to listen. 
	The soundman recognized this as a pivotal moment, and put on the damn disco all the girls wanted to hear, not really giving anyone time to let anything sink in. None of it made a damn bit of difference to the pimps, of course. Which is what again reminded me that I wasn’t one of them, as such. I was kind of worse, because I had a foot in both worlds. I knew better. I knew who I was, and who I was turning into. I consciously chose the wrong path. There’s a guilt there that can’t be easily assuaged or rationalized.
	Anyway…
	We had been standing there for over an hour. The girls needed to use the bathroom. We all wanted another drink, some more coke. After all our needs were attended to, we started to just walk around the ballroom, and check out the little side rooms and what was going on in each of them.
	Now, two of those rooms are part of why I call this the end of an era. It wasn’t just the historic coda of Willie Hutch’s entire career. The first was a closed-door event, and this bouncer cat looked the part. I know I wouldn’t have fucked with him. 
	“V.I.P.,” he said. “Who’s you?”
	That stung, more than a little. Who was I, indeed? Still quick-witted, though, I said, “The Ben Franklin Five”, and slid him five bills. At this point, the lavish spending was just stupid. But it got us inside, and my curiosity was satisfied. Because we only stayed about five minutes.
	There was a small, round stage and a stripper pole. This was one of the new ones, the kind that silently glided on oiled ball bearings, and gave the girls a solemn, graceful appearance. I didn’t know that was even a thing, at the time, and I just thought they were somehow the most amazing athletes in the world. So that part was cool. Around that time, I think a lot of pimps moved their girls into clubs. Because strip clubs ain’t nothing but whorehouses, and any dancer or club owner who claims otherwise is lying.
	We ordered drinks from the little minibar set up in there, and walked around the room, looking for a spot to sit. But as we passed the back wall where the best seats were, round booths that could hold eight people, I noticed cats smoking out of these big glass contraptions. They were using tiny blowtorches. And this wasn’t no weed, son. It was ether-freebased cocaine. The same shit that I later learned George Clinton had been on for several days straight while recording ‘Atomic Dog’. The same shit that Richard Pryor had tried to kill himself over. 
	Actually, there are two versions of events, there. One is Pryor (who was in The Mack, by the way…) dousing himself with 151 rum and setting himself on fire, a suicidal move inspired by the tragic lows that can come after blasting your brain into the stratosphere for too long. The other was that his freebase rig exploded in his face.
	Either way, I already knew about this shit, if only hypothetically. But looking at the intensity on the faces of the people basing, and the anxious anticipation of the girls in attendance, I fully got the vibe, and it was evil. When two girls started getting down on the floor right in front of everyone as people cheered, and a different chick caught a backhand across the face for being impatient or disrespectful or something, I had already decided it was time to go.
	In a sense, it was the best five hundred dollars I had ever spent. I definitely managed to avoid that pitfall, unlike so many of my contemporaries. To say nothing about the hundreds of thousands of girls who were used up and thrown away, their youth drained by age twenty, many dying in one foul way or another shortly thereafter.
	“What was that, Daddy?” Angela asked. There was an enthusiastic quality to her questioning that I didn’t appreciate.
	“A busted lip if you ever bring it up again,” I said, ending the discussion once and for all. 
	One room was a sort of open chill-out room, and the vibe was more my speed. There were vents in the ceiling, air intakes, and they were sucking up mad pot smoke. I don’t know where it went, but I bet you could smell it up and down the strip. Everyone was on couches with coffee tables, like some surreal, giant living room. These were the sensualist pimps and hoes. Almost Parisian in their attitudes. But I was too coked up to appreciate weed at that moment, anyway, so our travels continued.
	Another, bigger room, separated off from the rest by a set of double doors, had a sizable crowd, many of them dancing, pimps included. Dancing… is not some pimp shit. It’s ultimately silly looking, and puts you in a vulnerable position. No pimp worth anything would ever be caught dancing in public. That’s one man’s opinion, anyway. 
	Now, at first, I thought it was more of the same. A DJ spinning records. 
	Then this cat put his hand on one of them, and another on the fader, and added a, well, scratching sound to the mix. People thew up their hands and cheered. I mean, loudly. This was the wildest shit I had ever heard. I later found out this was a clique of DJs out of New York, and that they were the people who had pioneered this new style of music.
	It was epic, and I could see the writing on the wall. No matter what your band did on an album, these cats could always top it, by using your own music, and reinventing it in new ways. I never thought it would lead to the death of musical instruments themselves. Yet here we are. Other than one last gasp at the end of the 80s, when there was one final black rock movement, bands were done.
	Like I said, this was the end of an era. Reagan had now been in office for a little while, and the whole country’s attitude changed dramatically. Even though we were just coming off of some pretty terrible economic times, and the perceived prosperity was beginning to spread, life was taking on an uglier tone. A win at all costs mentality was pervading American consciousness. Suddenly, we were a nation of pimps. Cold, calculating, money over all fucking pimps. Even the women.
	
	But damn if the music wasn’t fun. When this cat put “Rapper’s Delight” on both turntables, and cut them the fuck up, working the vocal tracks into stuttering starts and stops, people lost their minds. The dawn of rap. Hip-hop. Whatever you want to call it. I mean, I had even heard it on the radio before, it had been out a little over a year, and got a lot of radio play. But I thought it was some sort of one-off novelty record. I never imagined at the time that I was hearing a whole new genre of music being born. One more solidly black than R & B, or gospel, or anything you could name. For a while, it was ours.
	Truth be told, we got it from the Jamaicans. It was dancehall ‘chat’, Americanized and commercialized. Jamaicans moved into New York with their massive sound systems, and instead of just playing rub-a-dub records, they actively spoke over them, in their own unique, singsong fashion. The next generation picked up on this and ran with it.
	And to be fair, it wasn’t really *entirely* a black thing. I only learned much later that some of the important people in those scenes were Puerto Ricans and such. Even a few white dudes. So, it was sort of ghetto music. From the ghettos, for the ghettos. It was ‘ours’ collectively. 
	Or ‘theirs’, really. It was for the youngsters. Which is sort of a dumb attitude, considering I wasn’t but a few years older than that generation of people anyway. But we draw lines of demarcation within our respective timelines, and I was solidly on the other side of the fence. Little did I know at the time that the amazing music produced by bands, the very art that fed the turntablists, was on its way out forever. Even the horns were eventually phased out of hip-hop. 
	It’s a sad fucking thing, man. I guess everyone feels that the changing of the guard is always for the worse. I really feel it applies here, though.
	Shit.
	I didn’t feel any of that at the time, however. I let the girls dig on it for a good while, until they were sweaty and thirsty. The air was hot and oppressive, like any good concert, and it was time to move on. We got another round of drinks, throwing the bartender a mere twenty dollar bill this time, and headed back to the main stage. The curtain had been drawn, but the disco played on. 
	It was ‘Good Times’, at that particular moment, and it was the right song at the right time. It sort of lifted away some of the darkness I was feeling at the moment. The girls were definitely with it, though, and I gave them each a decent little blast. They started dancing away some of that energy, drinks in hand, much like most of the other women around the stage area were doing. In fact, there ended up being a circle formed around everyone who was dancing. Since there was no band, we watched them instead, and it was quite a show.
	Now, how do you feel about premonition? Foreshadowing?
	Whoever was controlling the music faded from the classic Chic track, the genesis point of all that hip-hop stuff, into Queen’s “Another One Bites The Dust”. It was sort of smart and mirthful. Both songs had a similar bassline, so it was a seamless transition. But that song… man. It’s pretty fucking dark for some disco shit. People were with it, though, and the dancing never stopped, ironic selection or not. My own enjoyment was shattered a few moments later. In fact, my entire life started to change, although, again, I didn’t know it at the time.
	A particularly beautiful girl, darker than the pearl in that Steinbeck novel, a little taller than myself, sort of speed walked past the crowd of non-dancers, and made a beeline for us. There was a calm urgency to her steps that was puzzling, although it wasn’t quite alarming. 
	When she approached me specifically, though, positioning herself between me and my girls, she said, “Ooh, I’m for you,” and then turned to face Morgan and Angela, greeting them as if they were old friends. Morgan shot me an inquisitive glance, and I responded with a shoulder shrug and nod that indicated she was to play along, wherever this was going. The three of them exchanged pleasantries as best they could over the music, until I saw the reason for her haste and unusual behavior.
	He was a tall, gaunt cat, about six inches taller than I was, and the motherfucker was pissed. At her, primarily, but now at me. This was the sort of pimp drama I had heretofore avoided entirely. Life comes at you fast. Like an angry pimp. Since I had turned to face him, and was between him and my girls, I straight-armed him in the chest, stopping him cold. It wasn’t the same thing as hitting him, but it was close enough.
	“MotherFUCKER!”, he said. And his hand moved to his inside suit pocket. This cat was already two strikes before he went for his shit… 
	When it reemerged, clutching a snub nosed .38 revolver, I acted on pure impulse alone. As he drew down on me, I twirled my cane up and caught him hard in the wrist. The gun clattered to the floor and slid away, and when he looked at it in disbelief, I swept his legs out from under him with one of my own. He fell flat on his ass. Before he could even get back up to his feet, I had unsheathed the sword, and pointed the tip at his throat.
	“Bad move,” I said. There was an uproar from the crowd that drowned out the music entirely.
	It all happened fast. What happened after that was equally quick. Someone materialized from the crowd and made the gun disappear. Two others ran up on the dude, and seemingly offering him assistance in getting up, bum rushed him all the way out the back door. I’m pretty sure he got a beatdown over that. We do police our own, and this sort of behavior was highly improper, to say the least. He was threatening the security of us all.
	Two much bigger dudes were at my side, moments later. They took the sword and sheath, not aggressively, but took them, all the same, and one disappeared with it.
	“Hey!” I said to the one who remained. He had me by a hundred pounds and a foot of height.
	“Cool out,” he said authoritatively. “You’ll get it back.”
	
	The reason everything went down the way it did was because there were definitely a few undercovers there. Some of them were obvious. In fact, some might have been obvious looking to cover for the real undercovers. Not to mention they likely had a few snitches around as well. So, some sort of weapon-related incident was to be avoided at all cost. Not even everyone around the dancefloor knew what had happened, at the time. It was handled, and correctly, I think, because no uniforms cops ever showed up.
	“Come on, playboy,” he told me, and walked off. I quickly realized he was offering me a lifeline here, and it was also a fairly direct order, politely phrased. Not a threat, but sage advice. He didn’t look back as I followed, and neither did I. It wasn’t until we had exited the ballrooms and stopped at an elevator that he turned slightly and acknowledged me again.
	“Let’s go upstairs and let things settle down a bit before we come back. Make sure shit’s cool. Can’t have any more incidents.”
	I nodded toward him as he pressed the elevator call button. Then I turned around to check on the girls, and there were three of them. Fuck my life. This chick was the cause of all this drama in the first place. Morgan and Angela fairly crushed me between themselves, squeezing me tight. This was both in response to the incident, and to the presence of this unknown female threat, I daresay.
	But she just stood back and smiled wanly.

Chapter 33 – Tube O’Caine

	Man. Writing is hard. 
Okay, I’m just dictating. If I said dictating is hard, no one would agree. But this is getting to be more draining than I ever anticipated. Not physically, but it’s mentally and emotionally exhausting. Janice and I basically had our first real argument. I hope it was also our last. She took issue with the last chapter, which I describe as the night I lost my soul. Because, she said, she didn’t see any soul-losing going on in that one. A little retrospection. Some doubt. Guilt, possibly. Naturally, I reacted defensively.
And she was right, which is the worst quality about Ms. Livingston. She’s generally right. But I can’t juggle editorial decisions like that. All I can do is try and lay it down as best I can. If I get some details wrong, stylistically, that’s for her to fix. Or not, it’s her book. Right now, she’s giving me the silent treatment, anyway. (“…“ – Janice.) This chapter length stuff is hard, too, because I don’t know how long a story is going to be, really, in terms of pages, when I title a chapter and start talking. But these are some first-world problems, am I right? 
	Needless to say, the vibe at the elevator was a strange one. Homeboy was all business, cool and calm. Another day at the office. I had just about gotten shot and/or decapitated a motherfucker. Plus, I had this strange chick who had somehow adopted me, and was the catalyst for the events in question. It was kind of feeling like some sort of set-up, and I was ill at ease. As were the girls, obviously. We all rode in an awkward silence, but the uneasy part didn’t apply to everyone. 
It stopped at some non-descript floor near the top, and we trudged down the length of the hallway behind dude, with no idea of where we were going, or why. Near the end, my man stopped abruptly, turned to us, and said, “This is one of Mr. Juan’s suites. I expect you all to be on your best behavior.”
Woah.
He opened the door with a keycard, which was a new thing, and first implemented in Vegas, and stepped inside, leaving us to follow. He seemed unconcerned with me and my entourage at that point. But I soon saw why. We rounded the corner into the room proper, and were in the midst of four cats who looked like feds. Behind them was a room clouded not with pot smoke, but cigars. Great stacks of bills were being run though counting machines and banded. By old white dudes.
They looked like Feds, but were Fruit of Islam. They patted me down before I really knew what was happening. The girls were ignored. 
“A formality, my brother,” one of them said, and smiled, stepping back. Another went and retrieved my cane and handed it to me. “The organization apologizes for the unpleasantness.”
I accepted it and nodded, not really sure what to say in this situation. 
“We hope,” he continued, “you accept this token gesture as an apology, and enjoy the rest of your evening without further incident.”
He handed me a folded piece of official-looking paper, slightly bigger than a check and metallic gold like a Willie Wonka ticket, which I accepted without opening. I nodded again, and turned and exited, girls in tow. Three girls, remember. One I didn’t know, ask for, or trust. We left the suite unaccompanied, and headed back toward the elevators. I had a headful of questions, but none I would have dared vocalized in that room.
Angela did, too. *** WHO?   FIX THE HOTEL SITUATION PLOT HOLE SERIOUS DISCONTINUITY
“Daddy, there wasn’t a pimp in that room,” she said.
“I know,” I told her. “Not in the traditional sense of the word.”
Which was true. Lots of y’all out there pimp on a daily basis. You pimp your company, a product, a partner. The system itself, if you can. Those cats were pimping the pimps. If that was indeed Don Juan’s organization, I was impressed. All of that money couldn’t have come strictly from door fees and the like. A riddle wrapped inside of an enigma.
It didn’t make me no nevermind, ultimately. I had my cane, was no worse for wear, and the evening was still young. The night seemed wide open to us, without obstruction. I pulled the voucher out of my suit pocket and glanced at it. It was for a suite, and was dated for an entire week, starting the next day. But it wasn’t even for the Imperial Palace. It was at the MGM Grand.
Damn. 
Caesars and the Grand were the two top spots in Vegas, and were places I didn’t even consider, budgetarily. The girls didn’t ask anything about it, and I didn’t offer any info. The whole confluence of events had caused me to mostly forget about who all I had in tow. That lasted about ten more seconds.
“Here, Daddy,” a voice dripping with sweetness said from behind me. She pushed her arm forward between me and Morgan, and put a very sizable knot of bills into my hand. It was an unbelievable power move. I considered the heft, and put it away. The night kept getting crazier, and I still didn’t know what to make of it all, but my suspicions were fading fast.
There were no questions I could ask her at the time that made sense to vocalize. Especially in front of the girls. She wasn’t vetted, no matter what had gone down, or she had handed me. In fact, accepting that money could have just as easily landed me deep in prison, if she wasn’t who she appeared to be.
That’s something I learned way, way back in the days, when I was still fucking hoes and not pimping them. When a girl on the corner looks way too good, acts way too obvious, stands out in unusual ways, it’s a cop. I didn’t get that vibe from her, exactly, but the idea stayed in the back of my mind. Plus, you didn’t have to be a cop directly to be involved with them. Not that they had any reason to target me, of all people.
A player plays on. In the elevator, I needed a blast. I dumped some into the cap of the bottle, hit it, and then gave the girls each a taste off of my hand. I did it for the inexplicable new girl in my life, and when she leaned in for it, out of sight of Angela and Morgan, I saw her wipe it away with her thumb before pretending to snort it. She knew I knew, however.
"Thank you, Daddy,” she said.
“What’s your name?” I finally said. It might have been the first words I actually spoke directly to her, I’m not sure. I think so. It was pointed, but not overly so. 
“You can call me Patra,” she said. 
Even her phrasing was suspect. It was the shape of things to come. I doubt the girls picked up on the vibe, but there was a dynamic at play that defied ordinary expectations. I remained in a fog of uncertainty. Loyalty is everything to a pimp, and until and unless that is established, there can be no relaxing and letting your guard down.
“This is Angela and Morgan,” I told her. She had no reason to know my name, and I didn’t really throw ‘Clarence’ around, as a rule. And that was that. She was more or less tentatively a part of the pack. Unofficially. More like part of the night’s clique. It definitely enhanced my credibility when we made it back to the ball. I felt a hundred eyes on me when we stepped into the room. I was now known as some sort of black bushido, and had one more girl with me than I came to Vegas with. I was also up a bit on my cash again. Overall, reservations aside, I was feeling like a champ.
“Drinks, girls. Daddy needs to relax.”
I reached into my pocket and drew two bills from the inside of my newly acquired bank, thinking they were twenties. They were hundreds. 
I looked Patra in the eyes, and she gave up nothing. Just smiles. She really did radiate a warmth, overall. It was disarming. I handed one of the bills to Angela, still conscious of the pecking order and the need to keep up appearances. The whole balance of power seemed to be shifting, though. And maybe it wasn’t all just between the three of them.
We had ended up back near the dance floor and stage area, as it was where most of the real action remained. I profiled and waited, keeping my head on a swivel like a nervous scuba diver, but hopefully without looking obviously nervous. The bigger the fish you are, the more likely to attract unwanted attention. People did keep their distance from me, and I appreciated that much.
When they came back, I was given the change, which Angie put into my lapel pocket. I’m pretty sure she didn’t tip shit, and her skimming even a penny was unthinkable. Looking back now, she really was a one of a kind. A real number one chick. She handed me my drink, and it had never tasted better. I was still coming off of the adrenaline, which was as strong as the coke. The girls had their little paper umbrella drinks, and Patra had what looked like a screwdriver, but I knew at once was only orange juice. 
The crowd at the stage area was getting thicker, and something was clearly afoot. Since it was my first time at Player’s Ball, I didn’t know what to expect. Everyone else seemed to, though. We stood in a loose huddle and faced the curtains that hid the stage, and the girls actually engaged Patra in small talk. Such was the power of this woman. Already, she was winning them over. I didn’t think such a thing was possible. Winning me over was something else entirely, and it would take more than a suspiciously large amount of money to do that. It did help, though, not gonna lie.
My guard was dropping, however. Not just toward her. Because about twenty minutes later, I felt a light hand on my shoulder. I turned at the waist, startled, to see that it belonged to the man himself. Don “Magic” Juan. He was wearing a green fringed suit, with a matching top hat, those Bootsy-style star-shaped sunglasses he favored, and he also had a cane. A cane that appeared to be plated in gold.
“Son,” a voice said behind me, and I turned around fully at that point, “Good to see you here.”
It was Mayfield.  The hand had left my shoulder as stealthily as it had landed there. 
“Yes, sir,” I said, unable to think of anything else. “Good to see you again, too.”
I nodded to Magic, and got the blessed nod in return. 
“Don’t forget about Sunday,” he reminded me.
“That would be impossible,” I said. It was the raw truth.
“Play on,” he told me, and the two walked away, headed toward the backstage area.
	I was reeling in stunned silence. 
	“Daddy…” Angela said in a hushed tone. She clearly understood the general significance of the event. 
I thought I did, too.

Chapter 34 – Pimp or Be Pimped
	Now, look. Things get a bit fantastical, at this point. It is understandable that you may not fully believe me. The temptation for anyone writing an autobiography to improve upon real-world events for the sake of a story is probably irresistible, to a degree, for anyone. However, this is documented history. And I was there when it all went down. I can hardly believe it myself, and that is only taking the night up to this point into account.
	The lights went down as the sound system seamlessly changed from a record to a live band again, and the crowd made some noise, although I don’t think any of us knew what was coming, really. But we knew it was something big. Because a series of chords began that was instantly recognizable to everyone in attendance. And it sounded better than the record ever did, which was really sayin’ somethin’.
	The curtain didn’t come up, though. There was about five or six feet between the footlights and audio monitors and the red velvet drapes that hid the band from view. The guitar told us instantly that it was “Sittin’ on the Dock of the Bay”. And not just any version. The guitar kicked the whole thing off, but then the horn section added to it, and it sounded majestic.
	So much so that the crowd began clapping spontaneously in time with the laid-back tempo the drums provided. When the lead guitar came in after that, I got chills. It was a Hendrix Fuzzface guitar tone. Goddamn, this shit sounded good. That guitarist laid down a melody lead, and then a second tone layered over that as the distorted lead faded back a bit and joined the backing music.
	This time, it was unmistakably a Shaft-styled tone. Now my interest was really piqued, because I knew my man was on site. Ain’t this some shit, I thought. The same sort of sequence repeated, and the Hayes-sounding guitar (I refused to fully accept that it was really him) followed the Hendrix tone, replaced by another funky sounding lead.
	Finally, the guitarists fell into what you would call a harmony lead. A three-part harmony lead. It was some of the most epic, glorious music I had ever heard in my life. *This* felt like the culmination of a life’s dream. Not the money, the girls, the cocaine. None of that mattered one bit at that point. It was like a grand musical orgasm, and I didn’t really care who was playing it. I just existed in that moment, and wished it could stretch on to eternity. If I controlled the universe, I would still be standing there, swaying along with my two top chicks cuddling up on either side of me as we listened in blissful, rapt attention.
	Now, I knew it wasn’t motherfuckin’ Otis Redding, just like I knew it wasn’t Hendrix. They had both died about a decade earlier. Intellectually, I knew that, I should say. But it was like I could feel their presence, nevertheless. Their essence came through in the music, just as real as if they were behind that curtain. It was an almost religious awe I felt.
	That shit lasted about ten more seconds. 
	A dude with a bit of a fro, wearing a sparkling black cape and top hat kinda started sliding in from stage left sideways, with his back to the crowd. More cheers, whistles, and cries went up, and the clapping in time with the music got louder. As he got to centerstage, still facing the curtain, his hands went up, one holding a mic, and he wiggled his fingers indicating that he needed some heavy applause. It was a brilliant bit of showmanship. He was already commanding the crowd, and we didn’t even know who he was.
	He turned around as he started singing, looking not entirely unlike Richard Pryor, and for a moment, I was unsure.
	Then he began.
	“Shittin’ in the mornin’ sun…”
	The crowd went fucking nuts. Me and my girls seemed to be the only people there who had no idea of what was going on. And the dude had a silky smooth voice, too. He did a very passable Redding impersonation. It was only spoiled, if you can say that, by the bizarre lyrics. 
I think it must have shown on my face how upset I was initially, and damned if I didn’t get the sense that he saw my expression as he scanned the crowd. The clapping in time to the music continued, and by the time he had started the second verse, half of the crowd was probably singing along. 
	“Shittin’ on the dock of the bay…”
	By now, I was kind of in on the joke myself. This dude was funny as hell. He was a consummate performer, but he used his considerable talent to parody what was pretty much one of those holy grail, untouchable artists of old. All I could do was smile and fall into the groove along with everyone else.
	Naturally, it wasn’t too long after I was lulled into a trance, listening to this man desecrate one of my mother’s favorite songs (which sort of made it one of mine, as well), that he flipped the script on me once again.
	“Aye,” he said, and the music stopped in an instant. It was clearly a scripted part of the act, the way they reacted that quickly. “Fuck that fucking old coon bullshit. Play *my* motherfuckin’ track…”
	Woah. 
	It wasn’t enough to defile one of the most good-natured, beautiful songs ever written, he had to stomp it to death, right there on stage. It was outrageous. Now, I didn’t know what the fuck punk rock was back then, in any way, shape or form. Matter of fact, if you tell a black person you’re a punk, they will most likely take a step back away from you. It has an entirely different connotation in our world. But this was the most punk rock thing I could imagine happening, for that time and place. Some highly rebellious shit was going down. Revolutionary, in a sense. (Editor’s note: This seems the only likely time to mention that the most prominent punk rock album of that time period was Black Flag’s “Everything Went Black”…)
	But not necessarily revolutionary in a way I agreed with personally. Part of me wanted to slap the shit out of this cat. But the more sensible part of me, the one that appreciates art in all it’s many forms, laid back and watched the show. I mean, it was funny, once I got over the shock of what he was doing. Another factor that chilled me out was the fast little bassline that came out of the speakers next, the intro to the next song. It reminded me that, whatever was going on, it was met with the approval of the band behind the curtain. So, if they were good with it, I had to be, too, and I relaxed a bit.
	This Richard Pryor-looking motherfucker let out a crazy laugh, and immediately broke into a rap of his own. And with a live band, which is what I think could have changed the face of music entirely, had that trend continued. But it wasn’t just a rap, which was kind of new and fresh to us, at the time. I say “at the time”, because everyone should have known about Pigmeat Markham back then.
	Now, I daresay almost any of us from that era was familiar with his work, albeit unintentionally, without context. “Here comes the judge” was a phrase almost all of us had said or at least heard in our lives. Not just once or twice, but many times. I didn’t know why adults said it, or why it was funny, but it was.
	It was only later with Aunt Til that I got the scoop on all this stuff. Til didn’t feel education started with reading, and ended with math. Her approach was what you would call holistic. There were things to learn about everything, and she viewed them all as almost equally important. She said that we had an infinite capacity for learning, and that it was a sin, for lack of a better word, to ever stop that pursuit of knowledge. That the search for truth is a never-ending process, a sifting of facts into more fully realized and understood facts. There was no final truth, in other words, but just an improved understanding of what truth might be.
	Like I said, Til was one of a kind. 
	So, she had introduced me to Markham’s 1961 “The Trial” comedy album first. It was some pretty revolutionary stuff in its own right. Funny as hell, it begins on the note of saying “The judge is high as hell, and everybody’s goin’ to jail”, and just continues on with all sorts of deep humor for an hour. On the surface, it sort of seems like that Amos and Andy shit that Maxxy detested. But it wasn’t. You might even say it was some trojan horse stuff. Biting political and social satire going on about its business, while appearing as more minstrel show nonsense on the surface.
	My point was, initially, that this album starts off with a little ‘rap’ of its own, from the second the needle drops. In fact, rap of a sort was already kind of a thing with The Last Poets, for example. It’s not like these hip-hop kids invented rhyming poetry. Certainly, they have never reached the level of Shakespeare, or the Iliad or Odyssey, or Ginsberg, or anything like that. At least in my old-ass opinion.
	Predictably, Janice had to chime in here and point out that most of the stuff listed above doesn’t actually rhyme, including Howl, which I am well familiar with. The Greek poems were written in ‘heroic verse’, or as she likes to call it, dactylic hexameter. I think that sounds like some chemical dinosaurs must have used. But she knows what the fuck I mean, and so do you. Rhyming words, even set to music, isn’t a particularly amazing feat. It’s the basis of all lyrical music. Rap is sort of just singing converted to aggressive talking.
	Anyway, “The Trial” just set the stage for 1968’s “Here Comes the Judge”, where he had moved from comedy to James Brown and soul-inspired funk. So many things were derived from this song, it’s unbelievable. You can follow the lineage straight up to ‘Rubber Biscuit’ by the Blues Brothers. Markham set the tone for the next 50 years, unbeknownst to him. That beat alone is priceless. And, funnily enough, “He is the judge” is what the song primarily says, despite the title. At least from what I can remember. It was a long time ago for me, now. He did it again with “Who Got the Number” in 1969, lest you think it was a fluke. It’s basically a reworded “Judge” with a great keyboard sound, this time, to be honest. Still classic. 
	I’d have to say, having learned a great deal more about things since I was a youth, the Jubalaires were probably some of the earliest progenitors of the style. And that was in the damn 40s. You can actually hear the evolution in their work, as they progressively deemphasize the harmony aspect of what they were doing, until it was almost just a straight lyrical flow. It wouldn’t surprise me if some historian pulls out a rap from the 20s or 30s next. Not at all.
	So where was I?
	Oh, yeah. Janice rolled her eyes at my recent sidebar, and I walked the fuck out.

Chapter 35 – Fuck Yo’ Chapter Titles

	Okay, rough day yesterday. We actually had it out today, already. 
Janice, in her apparently fallible wisdom, told me that this was an autobiography, and not a half-ass ghetto musicology course. Now, ain’t that some privileged white bitch way of looking at things? I mean, I thought the point of this story, in part, was that I was more than a mere pimp. Music, and music history is as much a part of me as anything else. In turn, I told her that she should write her own fucking book, then. She said she is, and that it will sell more copies.
	I said, yeah, but it won’t be better than mine.
	After a long, tense moment, we both laughed. Janice doesn’t like a lot of construction work talk, either. But any real writer knows that the story goes where the story goes. Maybe these content decisions can be made by an editor. What she and I are doing, working out the content in real-time, essentially, is probably a terrible way of doing things.
	Fuck it. If ya’ll don’t want to hear about an essential part of my background, skip ahead. Or don’t read this at all. I honestly don’t give a fuck. Anyway, I’m trying to see where I was before Janice dropped her dusty fucking bloomers and laid a big pile of shit in my Cheerios.
	So, yeah. Blah blah, the history of rap. I had a fucking point, some time ago. It’s mostly lost now. But what I was getting at in trying to frame the context of this performance I was witnessing, which kind of blindsided me, was this. Less than a year after Sugarhill Gang dropped “Rapper’s Delight” (Is this sentence okay with you, Janice? Too much boring black people history?) (“Tokio, please get on with the book and stop being such a butthurt little bitch.” – Janice.), this motherfucker spit this on the mic, right from the jump:
“This is Blowfly, the master of class
And I’m here to sock some soul to your ass
Guys and girls, bulldaggers and faggots
Gonna rap in your ear ‘til your ass gets ragged”
	Bruh. I was a little shocked myself. But it wasn’t what he was saying. That was how everyone in the room talked. How everyone I *knew* talked. But that sort of stuff didn’t happen in music. It had never been part of a song like this. He had taken the, sorry, minstrel show of Sugarhill, who rapped about corny kid stuff, eatin’ mashed potatoes and shit, and proceeded to fill our ears with the most foul shit you can imagine. He crossed the line in a way no one ever had before, or since. 
	And it was funny as fucking hell. Not only did he just go off for what seemed like forever, he told a series of humorous stories. Hell, he referenced the whole big rig trucking fad of the past few years. Talked mad shit about police and crackers. The man said exactly what was on his mind, made us all laugh hard as hell. It was straight pimp shit, son. The not so subtle art of not giving a fuck.
	Because, being forced to think about it, and a lot of things, (Thank you for that, Janice.) I will say that is what being a pimp can be distilled down to. It’s not about manipulating women to your advantage. It’s not about making money. It’s about knowing what other people consider right and wrong, and still doing what you want anyway. It’s a conscious decision to live outside the bounds of even what other criminals consider kosher. 
	That’s the admirable side of pimping, even if every other aspect can be considered abhorrent. Which it can’t, because until you have lived The Life, and are intimately familiar with the players involved in the game, you’re just passing judgment on shit you don’t understand. Hoes are gonna fucking hoe, man. Pimps are gonna pimp. Crackers are gonna cracker. 
Old, rich white bitches are gonna old rich white bitch. (“That’s quite enough Tokio, thank you.” – Janice.)
What I’m getting at, though, is that this cat, who I learned was called Blowfly (allegedly, his own grandmother said to him when he was still young, “Boy, you nasty as a blowfly”…), was an incredible ground-breaking performer. He had already taken this rap thing to its logical extreme nearly a decade before anyone else did. *
So, as I’m absorbing all of this, and being captivated by the enormity of it all, another voice cut in over the P.A. A familiar voice, at that.
“Get this little nuttin’-ass boy off my motherfucking stage….”
The music all stopped at once. Dude turned around to look at the band he couldn’t see anyway, and two of those big gorilla ass bouncer cats bum-rushed him out of there, stage left. He was shaking his head, protesting, and looking upset. It was staged, but it was extremely well done. 
“Because it’s time for the pimp awards…”
You know it was Rudy Ray Moore. But not even Moore. It was fucking Dolomite.
People didn’t even clap or yell or nothin’. I think a lot of them were taking the Blowfly bit seriously, and were a little thrown off by that. The shock of this man appearing from nowhere, following that little scene, had stunned us all into relative silence. And now here he came, strolling out all slow, *three* of the hottest bitches there on each arm, wearing the most garish possible parody of a pimp suit imaginable.
I mean, how can you even parody a pimp suit? 
He did it, though. Wider lapels, bigger bellbottoms, puffier shirt. But it was probably the fact that it was made out of actual American flags that did it. Which was kind of a bold move in and of itself, at the tail end of an era that saw a lot of our people getting their asses stomped by the police for disrespecting their piece of shit rag. It was the big-ass Uncle Sam hat that really put it over the top, though. 
	He made an unhurried walk to centerstage, and by the time he got there, some of those Fruit of the Loom Islam guys, more nimble than the big bouncer types, had brought in a .* The front read, “Dolomite for President”. He tapped the podium mic once with his index finger to make sure it was on, and dropped the handheld one to the floor, where it gave a thump and was turned off at the soundboard.
	The girls each kissed him on his cheeks, two at a time, and walked back off stage.
	“You bitches go get my money,” he said sweetly.
	I thought this was the end of that bit of theatrics. But they literally came down from backstage, and began circulating through the crowd, soliciting cash as he spoke. As he gave his introductory speech, they returned one by one, handing him cash, which he accepted without comment, putting it into his suit pocket. Hell, I ended up giving one of them a bill myself. It was some cool-ass shit. But it was nothing compared to what he was saying as that went down.
	The stage curtain came up as all this was jumping off, and the band started playing again. They were all playing at half volume, and it felt more like some ensemble jazz performance for a while, as they laid down an audio bed for him to talk over. But the important part of everything was that on stage was something I hadn’t even allowed myself to fully even imagine.
	Curtis Mayfield, Isaac Hayes, and Willie Hutch were all performing together. Those were the three leads I had heard earlier. Part of me had even known that, but I wouldn’t allow myself to believe it until I saw it with my own eyes. Now, this is an even bigger deal than you might think, because there had been some serious rivalry going on in the past several years after all these movie soundtracks dropped.
	They had been flush with cash, with swollen egos, no doubt spun on high quality coke and heroin, more pussy than any man should have access to, cars, mansions, jewelry. Not Hutch, from what I have learned since then. He had apparently remained a fairly humble cat, despite the importance of what he had done. Probably cooler than all that, even, was that they had slowly raised the volume as they played, which takes a good bit of finesse when you’re dealing with a large band as they were, and what they initially started playing was Hutch’s “Brother’s Gonna Work It Out”. 
	They were telling us, although like many things, I suspect the subtlety of all this was lost on the majority of people there, that they had worked things out. That we could all work things out. That things could be good for everyone involved if we squashed our stupid beefs and rivalries. Cooler still, to me, was that they had elected to elevate Hutch to the status of peer and equal, with their choice of openers.
	I mean, he really was the third part of this triumvirate. There are many that feel he was the unspoken superior of the three. But that’s opinion. Like assholes, everyone has one. Nevertheless, he had never gotten the name recognition the other two had. I bet you didn’t know who wrote the soundtrack for “The Mack”, much less the theme for “Foxy Brown” (which they incorporated into the set they performed in the background during the awards ceremony) until you read this. They did my man a solid, and I for whatever reason was proud of them for it. 
	Better still, this is how Moore started off:
“Way, way out, on the Las Vegas strip 
The players all gathered, after making the trip.
They came in their Caddies
Impalas and more
Looking for action
And ready for war
They came with their banks
For winner take all
And brought their best tricks
To the big player’s ball
They came with their guns
Their razors
And swords
They came for the motherfucking
pimp game awards”
	Angela clutched my arm when he said that last bit. Because how unlikely was it that he would mention a sword, of all things? I think she was right. That wasn’t coincidence. It was all too much to take in. The band, Dolomite, this apparent reference to me personally. In very bad form, I had led my guard down entirely. 
	This proved to be important when a few seconds later,  Blowfly himself, who I later learned was actually named Clarence, ain’t that some shit, walked right up to me, and looked me in the eyes.
	“You got a problem with me, nigger?” he said, loud enough to be heard over the music. My girls definitely heard this shit, too, and probably some people we were shoulder to shoulder with. It was a serious challenge to me, and came out of nowhere. I guess he really did take offense at me taking offense. Maybe I was on the general radar for other reasons, looking back. Maybe it was some extended performance art on his part. 
	Because even back then, there was a distinction between the two pronunciations. ‘Nigga’ was what we all used casually with each other. For some people, it simply meant ‘man’, and ‘bitch’ meant female. But that hard R shit had other connotations, even then. That was even exemplified in the song he had done a few minutes earlier, as the police and white people he cited in his rap didn’t use no softened version in the song.
	It’s funny, in a sense, that we ever made such a distinction. But we all know it’s real as fuck. Hell, some of the white people I worked with used the softer version at times. They didn’t even really seem to be all that conscious of it, or self-conscious of it, at least. They were just talking like we talked, and it wasn’t usually offensive.
	That hard R, though? By that time, it was enough to get your jaw broken. At least if it came out of a white man’s mouth. If not worse than a beatdown. Black people had had enough. I mean, it took us long enough, but we were there. It wasn’t a case of niggas no more, but that on one hand, we accepted and embraced what the rest of the world had termed us, while at the same time drawing a clearly defined line in the sand.
	Well, I say clearly defined, but in fact it was a big grey area. For the most part, though, y’all keep both words out of your mouth. Even if you mean no disrespect. It’s some shit white people will never, ever understand. You can’t, because no one can fully comprehend what all of this means by viewing it from the other side, intellectually. There is no white equivalent, and I don’t think there ever will be. Maybe if we did it to y’all for a few hundred years like they did to us. And that’s something I wouldn’t wish on the worst Klansman. Straight up.
	Now, my fucking manhood had been challenged. In front of my hoes. In front of other pimps (not that I really gave a fuck about them). At fucking Player’s Ball. It was some real crisis of conscience shit. My soul was tested. Things definitely could only go two ways. And I made my decision.
	“Naw. I guess not,” I said in a gravelly voice. I was kind of hedging my bets with my words, there. Letting him know there was a fucking problem, but I was electing not to pursue it.
	His face changed in an instant, from mean-mugging me just like we were on the street, to flashing one of those beautiful smiles the best pimps all have.
	“Good,” he said. “Lemme get five on tha’ low.” 
	He put out his hand, and I slapped it back, palm to palm. We had a moment. Me and one of the most revolutionary musicians I have ever known had a fucking moment. Hell, I almost broke character and smiled back. Then he sauntered off, pointedly ignoring Moore’s act on stage, and headed to the bar.

Chapter 36 – #1 Stunner

	That little incident was over as soon as it had started, and it really only held significance to me, it seemed like. It definitely could have gone worse. So, I played it off and the award segment rolled on. I was still thinking hard about it when I heard, “…best new-jack up-start is apparently a motherfucker named Clarence.”
	My head whipped around to focus on Dolemite, and he was looking dead at me. Then out of the corner of my eye, I saw Blowfly chuckle and start heading toward the stage.
	“Not you, mothafucka,” Moore was saying, “that other motherfucker.”
	This was clearly a bit. Blowfly may have been many things, but he wasn’t new to the game, by a long mark.
	“Daddy,” Morgan was saying in my ear in a loud whisper. I knew what was happening, and at the same time, couldn’t process it. “Daddy!”
	That finally stirred me into action. I grabbed their hands and led them up on stage with me. Need I point out that hand-holding isn’t the most dignified move for a pimp? There are all types of macks out there, true. But Player’s Ball cats tend toward the other end of the spectrum. They’re constantly showing out for a audience of peers, trying to out-hard each other. But my defenses were fully down, at that moment.
	It wasn’t until we had walked up the little staircase and approached the podium that I looked out into the crowd. Patra! I had walked off with my two girls and forgotten about her entirely. Her eyes were afire, it seemed, but her face was expressionless. Something I could tell I would pay for later. Somehow.
	“Now, you ain’t Pimp of the Year or no shit,” Moore was saying, “but you’re off to a good start, my man.” He handed me a trophy, which was cool as shit. Gold-plated, for real, but it was a pimp parody of an Oscar, hat, floor-length coat, all that. Accepting it into my hands was highly surreal.
	“Say a few words for the folks,” he prompted me, and stood back from the mic.
	“Uh,” I said. “This is real cool. Thank y’all.” I help the statuette up over my head and got a round of hoots and whistles. And I was done.
	“A man of few words,” Moore resumed. “I like that shit. More time for Dolemite. Go on, now”
	We walked off stage again, and I was still reeling. When we got back to the floor, Patra said, “Congratulations, hus-bun,” and kissed me on the cheek. An odd and noble gesture, accompanied by troubling words. More troubling still was when I heard Moore say, “and the Baddest Bitch award goes to, from parts unknown, a trick named Patra. Patra, where you at, girl?”
	She laughed and started to walk off on me like I had done her. But she was just making a point. After a few steps, she turned, grabbed my hand and led me up on stage with her.
	“Shit. You again?” Moore told me as I approached. “You ain’t winnnin’ handsomest, that’s fa sho. Here, my dear,” he told her as he handed her an award. This one was a little hoe statue done in the same style. Big ass, mini-skirt. A surprising amount of work went into these things. Now, ordinarily, I would point out that “Here, My Dear” was actually him referencing a Marvin Gaye album that he allegedly wrote as a divorce settlement. But Janice is tired of that kind of shit.
	Patra had none of my reticence. 
 	“I *am* the baddest bitch!” she said, holding it over her head in triumph. “An’ if *any* of you fuck wit’ mi, mi hus-bun gwan kill you! Murda!”
	Then she walked off with me in tow. Who was the fucking pimp here, me or her?
	“Goddamn, girl,” Moore was saying. “You bad, all right. Clarence got him a handful, there.”
	I eventually took the lead and pulled her along with me. I had expected attitude when I got back to the crowd, if not actual trouble. To my surprise and delight, people actually gave us a wide berth. I almost did get attitude, but it was from my own girls. Their soured faces got right as I approached, though. They had correctly surmised that now was not the time or the place. Plus, their status had taken a hit, and they knew it.
	 We waited through the rest of the ceremony, up through Pimp of the Year. It was a cat named Smoov, and apparently he had clocked something like two million dollars in L.A. that year. This wasn’t stated publicly, IRS are some motherfuckers, but it seemed to be common knowledge among the crowd. And I was damn impressed myself. That was the kind of money I wanted.
	“Y’all muhfuckas hold it down, and we’ll see yo’ ass next year!” Dolemite said as a farewell before the curtain dropped. The band went out on Shaft’s theme, and I knew that had to have been a big three-way fight in which Hayes had prevailed, during the planning of the set. It honestly would have been my last choice. Only because Shaft, to me, while the music is great, is furthest from the spirit of the ball. He’s practically a fucking cop. It made for an excellent closer, regardless. Something about those horns and flute felt really majestic at that moment.
	The crowd dissipated, and I became aware of multiple sets of eyes on me. Unrelated individuals, but hard-ass looking pimps who were there solo. And they ain’t won shit. They were in corners, against walls, looking hard at me, and not in admiration. I suddenly became conscious of the gold we were carrying. The fact that Patra has basically shamed every pimp in the room. Of the underlying tension between the girls. 
	“Let’s call the limo,” I said, and started heading toward the payphones.
	“I need mi tings, hus-ban,” Patra said. I’m pretty sure she didn’t have that accent earlier.
	For a motherfucker who tries to stay two steps ahead, I hadn’t thought things through to this point. I had a beautiful but extremely troublesome girl on my hands. One that was calling me husband. They don’t prepare you for this shit in pimp school.
	I stopped and considered this coolly for a moment.
	“Right. Okay.”
	My strategy of few words was almost always the right course of action. So we went instead to the elevators, and Patra hit her floor. The girls were clinging heavily to me, and making sure she couldn’t be even close to me. Women are so jealous of each other, it’s a wonder any pimp can clock work with more than one. It’s jumping rope on a razorblade.
	At the room, she stopped, and said, “I know what has to be done, hus-bun. Can I at least take it alone?”
	Goddamn it. She was three-steps ahead of my two-steps. I had yet to consider any of that stuff. The whole situation had thrown me way off my game.
	“I think the girls would be okay with that,” I told her.
	“Who is in charge?” she asked me. Ouch.
	“I’ll be right back, girls.”
	“Yes, Daddy,” they said. But somewhat sullenly. They weren’t doing all that good at masking their displeasure.
	When we had stepped inside, I was ready to let loose with a barrage of angry questions. Instead, Patra put her fingers to her lips and opened the closet. Hanging in there was an impressive array of belts, riding crops, whips, floggers, and stuff I didn’t exactly recognize or understand. Now I know that they were strap-ons.
	She selected a thick belt that looked well-worn. I thought she was going to hand it to me. Instead, she folded it over and slapped the leather deskchair with it, and it gave a convincing sound. She let out a cry.
	“No, no hus-bun!” she was shouting, and started to fake tears while continuing to slap the cushion.
	“What the hell are you doing?” I asked her through gritted teeth in between swings and yells.
	“We both know the game,” she said in a clearly American accent, “hus-bun…”
	She smiled broadly and gave the chair a particularly hard swat, followed by more tearful apologies. “Your girls won’t respect me if I don’t get properly broken in.”
	Patra was just too much for me to deal with. I was thrown way off by everything about her. 
	“First of all, who *are* you? That’s ain’t African or the islands.”
	She sighed. “Fucking Wilma from Philly. Okay?”
	I just looked at her. 
	“I’ve heard every fuckin’ Flintstone joke there is, so don’t bother. Please.”
	“I wouldn’t…”
	“I know, Clarence. That’s why you’re mine, now.”
	“Yours?”
	“That’s how it works. I thought you were a pimp?”
	“I am a pimp.”
	“Surely you don’t think you’re in charge of those girls out there?”
	“I am. Ask ‘em.”
	“I don’t have to. You exist at their mercy.”
	I couldn’t even argue with her.
	“Now, I make money. I give Daddy money. We are both happy. But don’t presume that I can’t do this without you, or any man. You might find your ego wounded. You have those girls not because you are cruel to them, but because you’re decent. That’s rare. Shit, the one ain’t even a ho. What was she, a bank teller?”
	She was exactly that, of course, but I didn’t say anything.
	“What’s with all the gear?”
	“My tools of the trade.”
	“You let tricks beat on you?”
	“Ha! That’ll be day.”
	“Then what?”
	“I beat on them, hus-bun.”
	“Get the fuck out of here.”
	“There are stranger things on heaven and earth than are dreamt of in your philosophy, Iago.”
	It was twelve years before I learned the origin of what she had said. A ho quoting Shakepeare. Or, at least I had considered her a ho. She was actually anything but.
	“You made that money whippin’ dudes?”
	She laughed. “That? No. I stole it.”
	“What?”
	“Cat tried to mack on me. His hubris got the best of him. As did I.”
	“Fuck,” I said. Then, as an afterthought, “Robbing me would be your last mistake.”
	“Yes. But not for the reasons you think.”
	I pondered her statement, and then she added, “Don’t worry. Do you think I gave you money so I could rob you?”
	She did have a point, there. Patra gave the seat a few more slaps accompanied by the appropriate outbursts, then stopped, sobbing, and start gathering her things with a smile on her face. When she took everything off the hanger in the closet, I asked her about the rubber cocks on belts.
	“What are these for?”
	“When we get home, I can show you…”

Chapter 37 – Nightcap

	So, I literally hand my hands full. Thankfully, Patra was organized and traveled well, so at least I didn’t have my hands full of rubber dicks. The girls made no move to help carry her stuff, and I didn’t blame them. I suppose I should have looked at it as them refusing to help me, but I was overwhelmed. I did hand Angela my award, which felt way too conspicuous to be waving around anymore, and the other was handed to Morgan for her own purse.
	“Keep it,” I heard Patra tell her from behind me. A curious gesture.
	At the lobby, we hit the payphone and I dialed the beeper number of the cabbie, putting in the code we had arranged beforehand. It took him almost twenty minutes to show up, during which the girls played slots by the entrance where I could watch for him. As with most things of that nature, Patra didn’t participate.
	When he did arrive, honking the horn like a goofball, instead of getting out, he popped the trunk and rolled down his window.
	“Bro! They wouldn’t let me in! They said I looked like a cop!”
	“You do look like a cop.”
	Actually, having now slept in his suit, he looked like a bad parody of a down-and-out undercover. Thankfully, it was a short, uneventful trip. It felt good to be home, or what was as close to home as I had to retreat to. But even that was somewhat spoiled by Patra’s presence. 
	It wasn’t that she was in any way troublesome. In fact, she already seemed to be more than a solid team member. There was something about her manner and presence alone that commanded respect from the girls. That she was both warm and firm with them contributed to that. On the other hand, it was her firmness that put me off. I was entirely unfamiliar with that quality in the women in my life. It put her more on a footing with… Aunt Til. Needless to say, that was discomfiting.
	As I was to find out, Patra was skilled at a good many things, and that became apparent immediately. After we had set our bags down and hung our clothes, she said, “Shower, girls. Go,” and actually slapped Angela on her ass. That jiggling reverberation was like a cosmic shockwave. They turned without question and closed the door behind them, and the water began to heat up a few seconds later.
	“They need structure,” she told me. Then she stepped forward and crossed her arms around my neck loosely, staring me in the face.
	“Will you make love to me tonight, hus-ban?” 
	She said only the last part with the faintest of accents. 
	I kissed her. It wasn’t electrifying in the sense of an intense shock. Instead, it was a warm, rich, slow-growing feeling. A bonding that went far beyond physical attraction. I know how it sounds, but our souls spoke to each other, silently. It was quite a kiss. And the kiss was all the answer she needed. She grabbed my wrist and led me into the steamy bathroom. Literally. 
	Her clothes joined the heap as she laughed and threw back the shower curtain to gasps. She stepped in between them as though it was daily routine, and took the scrunchie from Morgan, who had been in midst of scrubbing herself down, no doubt in nervous anticipation.
	“Come on, Papi,” Patra said without a trace of island accent. “The floor is getting wet.”
	I’m not going to say that four people in a shower is entirely comfortable. Especially when three of them are desperate to keep their hair dry. At the same time, when they’re soaped up and gorgeous, it can make up for a lot. It was more perfunctory and clinical than sexual, but seeing Patra, who stood nearly a foot taller than either girl, man-handling them a bit as she scrubbed them down, did stir a lot in me. 
	 Then she rinsed and soaped up both of the girls’ scrunchie things and handed one to each. 
	“Now do us.”
	To my mild surprise, the girls took direction from her well. Something about her presence and directness agreed with them, somehow. We ended up face to face, and for those moments, I honestly felt like a king facing his queen. This cramped Las Vegas shower had become a royal affair.
	Slightly dampened by the traditional three hotel towels we had upon exiting. But she allowed them one each, and stayed behind in the bathroom to dry me off first. As far as I was concerned, she could have kept the water droplets on her skin, because it only added to her appeal.
	When she was done, she slapped me lightly on my own ass.
	“Go get in bed.”
	Instead of it being an awkward moment, or a power struggle, or anything like that, it all felt natural and comfortable. To know that we have shared best interests, and that an action performed by one was for the benefit of both. It was a far different feeling than with the girls.
	It somehow made me appreciate them both more. When I walked in and saw the two of them already in bed, holding each other, I stopped for a moment, and we had a brief, three-way conversation with our eyes alone. Then I gave a cry and jumped onto the bed, landing between and across them both, and they squealed in delight. I was pretty involved with kissing and groping them both, so I didn’t notice Patra until she said, “Aren’t you forgetting something, hus-bun?”
	I turned around to look, and she had my belt folded over in one hand, the other on her hip. She was wearing one of those rubber cock things.
	For an instant, I thought she had intended it all for me.
	Then she dropped the belt on my legs and bent over the foot of the bed.
	“Again?”
	“I’m a very hard-headed woman,” she said in her island accent.
	I deliberately kissed each girl, then crawled out from between them. I’m not going to get into explicit detail here, but I can’t gloss over elements of this evening. Janice has left the room. The first swat administered to Patra elicited no response. A second applied at double the force garnered only a slight moan. Clearly, my work was cut out for me, there.
	The girls watched in repose, with interest. Soon, she was crying out. She reached for the girls and pulled them up and toward her, until they were all three face to face. She kissed each of them, smearing their cheeks with her tears. It was a moment of tribute.
	When she finally collapsed, and I had decided that was enough, not for her, but for me, it only took her a few seconds to regain her composure.
	“My turn…”
	She pulled the now almost hypnotically-compliant girls up out of bed and positioned them where she had been, and directed me to where they had been laying. Her treatment was both harsher and more tender than my own. It wasn’t long before their tears commingled, and they kissed each other for solace. 
	Needless to say, I couldn’t resist them for long. And yes, she did eventually show me what the rubber cock was for. 
	
	

	 

	

	

	
Chapter 38 – Suite Mack

	Okay, I didn’t find out like *that*. I came in today to find Janice snickering over my recordings as she transcribed them. Damn it. You know what I meant.
	When we were all thoroughly exhausted, Patra retired to the couch. It wasn’t just that she was stunningly un-possessive. She was a master of psychology. She had won the girls over in a number of ways by the end of the night, but allowing them to have the bed with me exclusively was a very shrewd move. It felt right all around, furthermore. She was so independent, a relationship with her was like an explicit contract. There were terms and conditions.
	And that’s what this was already. A relationship. Complex as hell, at that.
	When we had gotten around eight hours of sleep, and the Vegas sun was really starting to blaze (Player’s note: Acquire rooms on the west side of Vegas hotels to sleep in better), we awoke to the smell of coffee, eggs, bacon, and toast. It was only then that I realized I was not only famished, but hadn’t touched the cocaine last night. Nor had the girls asked.
	That was powerful indeed. Cocaine was currently the last thing my body wanted or needed anyway. The fact that the girls hadn’t even asked gave me some glimmer of hope for my plans of quitting entirely. They gently woke with me, and we all just laid there, eyes open, listening to the sounds coming from the kitchenette. Things felt a little unreal to me, and I’m sure it was along those same lines for them. Probably worse.
	Not unpleasant, at that point. Disturbing, because it was so pleasant. A black Mary Poppins had walked into our lives, set down her traveling bag of whips and dildos, and was now in our kitchen singing to herself in a low voice as she finalized our breakfast plates. First, she brought us three coffees, all at once, putting the mugs on a plate. It was a thoughtful touch, and another example of the subtle psychology she employed. 
	“Good morning, family…”
	“Morning, Patty,” Morgan said. 
	“Mmph. Morning,” Angela added, through what was probably a hangover.
	It was a pretty bright reception, all things considered. Needless to say, I was surprised. Then again, Patra did have a way with them. 
	She was indeed a professional. What sort of professional, I had only an inkling of at the time. Now that I have the terminology and understanding, she was not only a domme, a female dominant, but a switch. She could play a submissive role just as well. Her ability to, well, switch, at a moment’s notice, or actually do both at once, was beyond impressive. Not only that, but her sincerity went a long way, both with the girls, and myself. Other than her background and accent affectations, she exuded honesty.
	Patra was a complex individual. I call her by that name and not Wilma, because that’s what she wanted, and I respect that. Her role as a domme made her as un-hoe-like as you can be. At the same time, she deferred to me physically, and was lavish in her adoration. It was a powerful combination. Since I don’t want to be graphic, just understand that this was a woman who ordinarily dominated grown men for a living. The girls were literally putty in her hands.
	“We’ve a lotta tings to do today,” she said, handing us plates, the slightly wet and peppered scrambled eggs still steaming.
	“Like what?” I honestly hadn’t given things much thought beyond last night.
	“Gwan move di’ tings a fi room, for da one.”
	“Do you *have* to talk like that?”
	“No, not actually, if you’d prefer I didn’t,” Patra said plainly. The girls both gasped in amazement, and then started giggling. “But I did phone ahead, and the suite is ready and waiting for us. Beyond that, the doors to the show open at six p.m.”
	As an example of exactly just how take charge she was, those weren’t even things I had ever discussed directly with her. She just picked up the scenario over the course of the night from my conversations with the girls. 
	“Of course, you’ll need something new to wear.”
	I stopped chewing for a moment.
	“Won’t you?”
	I definitely hadn’t thought things through.
	“You still need to contact work about extending your stay, don’t you? I’ll leave the new flight arrangements to you.”
	Jesus. I just wanted some damn coffee. And I was still hung up on the idea of not being able to wear the same outfit a second time. Meanwhile, the girls had caught her energy, and were enthused at the day’s prospects. They finished up their modest, controlled portions, and scampered off to attend to their preparations. Patra sauntered over to me and put her arms around my neck, leaning in close to kiss me on the cheek. 
“Let’s have a good morning, hus-bun.”
“Why would I need a new suit?”
“A far different crowd and setting tonight. You’d look like a performer. The suit’s fantastic, but you’d feel out of place.”
She knew me that well already, somehow.
“What do you suggest?”
“We’ll go something sort of mainstream. Classy. Upper-class Black Vegas.”
“Sounds like you know your market.”
“Vegas is part of my circuit.”
“Don’t you want to know where we’re going after Vegas?”
“It doesn’t matter to me, Daddy.”
With that, she continued her campaign of packing and tidying by laying out clothes for me while readying the rest, along with a separate bag for dirty laundry. The girls showered, and came out aglow. Life with Patra was already agreeing with them. I decided that I wouldn’t bring up coke if they didn’t.
I had regained my first sense of clarity since arriving in Vegas. It had been a whirlwind of living in the moment, upon arrival. Now I was realizing that I had to tell my job that I was coming back a week later, and delivering the news on the day I was supposed to return. That I now had four other outfits to buy. Four other tickets to rebook instead of three. And what to do with an entire week in Vegas?
Those are hardly major problems to have, and the considerable sum Patra had boosted from the angry mack at the ball went a long way toward smoothing many of them over. Plus, she was now unofficial co-pilot of the operation, as well as house mother. A good deal of worry was taken from my shoulders, and I could feel it. Unfortunately, it only laid bare my bigger, meta problems regarding a direction in life. 
First things first, though. I finally drained my coffee and dragged my ass out of bed. When I came out of the shower, the bags were by the door, and all three girls were sitting primly on the made bed, Patra in the middle, pocketbooks and purses in their laps. It was a little surreal. Almost creepy. 
I glanced sideways at them, and then walked over to my clothes. Before I started to get dressed, I looked over my shoulder to see them still looking at me in silence, with blank looks on their faces. When I turned my attention back to my clothes, they all fell out giggling. They couldn’t keep it up any longer, and their laughter finally spread to me. I finished dressing with a smile on my face.
Patra opened the door to the hall, and started loading the bags onto a rack she had acquired earlier, while the girls grabbed the hanging suits and dresses. By the time I buttoned my shirt, we closed the door on an extremely tidy room, and rolled out in calm comfort.
I didn’t bother with our cabbie for such a short hop, but resolved to call him later for the limo. There was something about her presence that made things feel festive. Upper-class Black Vegas. I liked the sound of that. I rolled the cart right up to a waiting cab, and for once I didn’t feel compelled to tip beyond the norm.  
The MGM was a whole other world. It really had that old timey feel, back then. When luxury really meant luxury, not the gleaming, modern sense of the world. It was in the feel of the aged wood and the brass doorknobs. The lobby alone was so stately as to make you feel like you were in a movie. 
	It was a breezy check-in, thanks to Patra, who had indicated I just need present my voucher and driver’s license. Less than a minute later, a bellhop had taken our cart on ahead of us to our room, leaving it inside for us, and not even hanging around for a gratuity. On the elevator, I started to ask what floor we were on, and she hit twenty-six ahead of me. It was the top button.
	Even the hallway ceiling was vaulted. There were alcoves with comfortable couches at either end of the hall. It truly was grand, and I’m glad I got to see it. Little did I know it would burn down that very same year.
	The room, if you can imagine, looked like a tasteful Liberace set. It was all oak paneling, old world-looking stuff, even on the ceiling. Hanging from sixteen feet up was not one, but two chandeliers. There were sconces on the walls that were electric, but closely resembled candles. It had none of the cheesiness and whimsy of the last ‘honeymoon’ suite. The furniture all looked and felt expensive. It’s part of what I mean about old school luxury. It was very sensual. The wood was tempered by the windows, which spanned the length of the room, and continued around the corner.
	When I say ‘Liberace’, I’m not just making a joke. There was a full grand piano in the room. On top was a huge vase of red roses, and a chilled bottle of Dom. Next to that was, literally, a lit candelabra. 
	It was such that our eyes had competing sights. You wanted to look at everything at once. We set our things down in the foyer and Angie was the first to make a decision. She ran over to the window and practically pressed her face against it. It was indeed a stunning sight. Morgan joined her only moments later, and they were lost for a moment in the dazzling lights. I can’t imagine a better view of the city.
	I just stood there feeling as though I had unknowingly arrived at another plateau in my life. As if to confirm what I was thinking, Patra lifted my hand to her lips. Then we both stood there for a moment and took in the sight of the girls taking in the sights. Finally, she let go of my hand, and instead of just dutifully grabbing the bags herself, she walked over to the girls and put her hands lightly on the small of their backs. Without saying a word, she led them back to the entry where we all grabbed something and our luggage was stowed in closets at once. 
	Angela opened a door on the wall to our right past where we came in, and it opened onto a bathroom that was nearly the size of a normal hotel room. Someone was thinking ahead when they included three vanities. 
	“Finally, a bidet,” Patra said.
	The shower would easily accommodate four.
	“There’s no bed, though,” Morgan said. Then she walked around the corner.
	“You guys!”
	What had appeared to be some sort of partition wall by the windows to our right was really the beginning of a hallway. The windows ran the length of it, extending that same incredible view all the way around the far corner. To the left was a balcony. To the right, the hallway opened up into a dining and entertainment area, complete with a bar, a full kitchen tucked off behind the lounge.
	The girls were torn, but ended up speed walking down the hallway with glee. I followed behind, not keeping up, and Patra was behind me. 
	“Oh my god!” Morgan was saying ahead of us.
	“I know!” Angela added.
	The bedroom was the size of the previous room that housed the piano, with the same high-arched ceilings and paneling, but this time with a skylight. As luck would have it, a three-quarter moon hung over us in the sky.
	There was both a loveseat and a couch facing the view, and the bed itself sat on a platform a step above the floor. It was a hand-carved four-poster bed with a canopy, and it looked like it could sleep six people comfortably. Very comfortably. Like a museum exhibit, but one that begged for you to climb onto it, even in the middle of the day. Beyond that, there was another full bathroom, and a door we assumed was a closet.
	Then I noticed Patra wasn’t there. Felt it. It was odd, to miss her presence already. I left the girls, and found her out on the balcony. Her arms were on the rail, and she was staring past the twinkling lights to the mountains beyond.
	“It’s beautiful,” she said.
	For what may be the first time, I approached a woman with pure affection. I wrapped my arms around her from behind and said, “You’re beautiful.” She melted back against me, and for a little while, we just swayed slightly and absorbed the view. Moreso, we absorbed the situation.
	When I saw the girls coming out of the corner of my eye, I reflexively let go of her. She didn’t seem to mind, although she definitely noticed. I guess you could say she understood. 
	“So pretty!” Morgan was saying as they stepped out into the wind.
	Patra excused herself as the girls chatted animatedly about their surroundings. She quickly returned with the champagne and four glasses on a tray, motioning for us to follow her. When we entered the bedroom suite again, she was popping the cork, and soon handed us each a flute.
	“To us,” she said, making a toast.  Our glasses all clinked, and she surprised me by drinking with us. When we had each finished the small amount she had poured, she collected them, filled them to the brim, and put them on the nightstand along with what was left in the bottle.
	Then she pushed the girls onto the bed.
	“Okay. You guys can do your devil powder now…”
	She really did know me that well, already.

Chapter 39 – Superfly

	Patra eventually let us doze, or at least lay there with our eyes closed, and ordered a light lunch. She seemed to live primarily off of fruit alone, although I eventually learned she was a vegan. And then I learned what vegan meant. The rest was other sorts of finger food for us, which suited the moment. Instead of rousing us all together, she pulled the girls out one at a time and directed them to the shower, while she made some calls in the lounge area.
	Eventually, she brought me into the shower with her, and closed the door behind us. By now, I don’t think the girls even minded.
	“Are you happy, hus-bun?”
	I couldn’t think of any reason not to be.
	“I am,” I said. “Are you?’
	“Patra is always happy.”
	But the look on her face slightly and momentarily betrayed her. Actually, I think what she said was true. Patra was always happy. Wilma possibly never was. Her gifts were also her curse. She was too good, and too smart for the world. I think her roleplaying was escapism, and an attempt to defray boredom and world-weariness. 
	When I had dressed and emerged from the bathroom, the girls had the closet door open, and were looking inside and talking to themselves. It was lined with benches, and had a bowl of round, gray rocks.
	“What it is?” Angela asked me.
	“Shit, I don’t know.”
	Patra walked in past us, and reached around the wall, pressing a button. Steam slowly began to rise from the bowl.
	“Sauna. It takes a while to warm up. We’ll have plenty of time. It’ll be wonderful after the gym.”
	None of us said anything about that. A gym wasn’t really a part of the girls’ lifestyle, and I got a decent amount of exercise at work. When I worked, that is. That world was starting to feel sort of distant already. 
	She made sure we were all fed, dressed, and understood the itinerary for the afternoon. I no longer bothered with our old cabbie, and Patra directed our new driver to a downtown galleria sort of place (they’re too fancy to just call them malls) similar to where we had shopped at Caesar’s.
	This time, shopping was painless. The girls walked off chattering and examining the suits, first, then heading off into the dresses. I didn’t bother trying to keep up, but looked at everything, which mostly didn’t appeal to me, and I assumed this stop was primarily for them.
	I was wrong.
	Not too long after I had lost track of them entirely, and grown tired of looking at suits I didn’t want, they returned with three dresses and shirts, a bag of accessories, and two hats. After continued discussion that didn’t involve me, down to my measurements, Patra selected a pinstripe suit with a decent cut, lawyer-like, I would say, and took it off the rack.
	“This will fit best,” she told me. Morgan had already grabbed a shirt and everything else with Angela, and I was promptly shoved into a changing room.
	When I emerged, I looked far more like a mobster than I had thought was possible. It was the hat, really, that set it off for me. 
	“Nice, Daddy!” Morgan was the first to say. I had activated her Godfather fetish. Patra had, really. She had gathered a lot of information about us in only 24 hours.
	“Let’s change,” she told them, and they retreated to individual changing rooms.
	When they came out, things made even more sense. Their own pinstripe skirts and white shirts, business-classy attire, gave them a look that was a combination of mafia and moll. It was perfect. It was the first time I had seen Patra wear anything other than floral print wrap-style dresses, and she looked even more impressive.
 They wore matching pearls, and the look was completed when Patra placed the other hat on Morgan, to my mild surprise. She beamed with delight. I think even she assumed the matching hat was for Patra. As I said, she was a master of psychology. In her rare case, she didn’t use it for malicious or selfish purposes. Less than an hour after arriving, we were checking out, clothes still on. The final touch she provided was when she selected a gold pocket watch for me, which looked perfect with the suit.
	When I paid for everything, though, it was only a little over four hundred dollars. That was because Patra had copped the dresses herself. The champagne and lunch were also on her, I found out much later, along with many other things that week. She never sought credit for any of it. Anyone else would have charged it to room service, at best. If they had the forethought to even do anything like that in the first place.
	I was starting to feel like a second-rate pimp by comparison.
	When we hailed a cab this time, I didn’t even bother talking about what we would do before the ticket booth opened. Patra said a single word to the driver, and we were off without discussion. Where we ended up was The Stardust, who had opened the first Race and Sports parlor in a casino on the strip. We sat at some high narrow tables like all sports bars have, under a ring of TVs bigger than any I had ever imagined. Each of them had a horse race on it. 
	The waitress addressed me, but Patra interceded and conferred with her closely for a moment. She returned only minutes later with two baskets of crab legs, a pitcher of beer, three mugs and… a glass of water with lemon. You can guess which one was hers. But there were also four racing forms and pens. We distributed them, and the girls began reading the horses running.
	“Let’s pick,” Patra said, looking at her watch, “five races. The first two of the afternoon have run, so start on the fifth.”
	Racehorse names are crazy. Plus, the form encompassed several races that were all broadcast live on different screens, so it was complicated. But we all filled them out, herself included, and that alone was fun. The girls conferred on their choices so as to prevent overlap, and Patra soon collected our bets. The race onscreen was already getting our attention, even though it wasn’t ours. 
	The timing was well planned by her, though. It wasn’t long after we had started cracking crab legs and drinking beer that our first race was up, and we were all cheering our respective picks. We won six races over the course of the afternoon, with Baby Boss winning a whopping three of her five picks. In fact, she picked up the tab with her largesse, so everything paid for itself. The only thing cooler would have been actual horseraces, which mostly has never been a thing in the history of Vegas, it seems. I think that would be a huge draw.
	I was beginning to enjoy Black Upper Class Vegas. This was the sort of thing I never would have done with the girls on my own, and it brought to mind how uneventful things had grown of late. If life was about enjoyment and experiences, I had been too narrowly focused on the daily pleasures my lifestyle had provided, up to that point. Not really living, as such.
	So, we had taken a few tiny bumps. The beer more or less demanded it, once we had our fill of crab. When we were in the cab en route to the show, I pulled out my case and lined me and the girls up some proper blasts. Even that felt different. 
	For one thing, the relaxed nature of the day, and my lack of worry, made doing cocaine feel less stressful. We didn’t even get a strong sense of disapproval from Patra. She had somehow made us subtly aware that she didn’t care for it, and that she wished we would stop, but other than that, it wasn’t an issue. It’s really what helped lead us to quit eventually. One of the reasons, anyway.
	At the ticket office, where we looked amazing, I might add, I asked for four, and the vendor asked for my I.D. At first, he said, “$104.68”, but as I pulled out some cash, he stopped me as he consulted a list.
	“Hold on. Mr. Clarence Jackson. The tickets are comped, sir. Have a great evening.”
	He slid me an envelope, and we were off, only slightly stunned. At the gate, I opened the envelope to find four tickets, which I hadn’t considered before that moment. But he had updated the quantity after Player’s Ball to account for Patra. Not only that, behind the tickets were four backstage passes for afterwards, and a keycard.
	“Concourse A, forward and to your left, suite six,” the ticket taker was telling me. I was only half listening.
	Suite six?
	Damned if they weren’t box seats or whatever you call them. A complete little lounge with couches, theater chairs, a door only we could open. It was plushed out, and I didn’t know you could watch a concert like that. It was kind of bloodless, not being in a crowd of sweating, screaming people, but it felt nice all the same. It was made even more so by the fact that there were speakers and screens. We were getting board sound from the stage, not just the auditorium. One of the cameras was already set close-up on center stage, and I realized I would get a better view from that than was possible at any concert.
	The girls fixed us drinks, and Patra got herself sparkling water. In the same festive mood, she opted for a slice of lime instead of lemon. But when we sat down, the girls didn’t try to flank me anymore. Patra sat to my right, Morgan was on my left, and Angela was beside Patra. It was an arrangement that felt natural for everyone involved.
	I am not going to rehash the concert here. Rest assured, the man was at the pinnacle of his career. It pains me to this day to know that he would be a paraplegic a few years later, leading to his early demise. I have people in the industry today that have told me that it was no accident, furthermore. As evidence, they say, his band was placed some fifteen feet back behind him, according to the stage marks. 
Every bit of the industry is dirty like that. All industries. But I’m not going into that, either. Janice says this book is going to end up in Lord of the Rings territory if I don’t learn how to push the narrative along. I can write some Ken Burns-ass music documentary shit some other time, according to her.
	Fair enough.
	The show was top-notch, though. There’s something about seeing it in a huge arena like that which reframes the context of everything. It *felt* very Black Upper Class Vegas. It wasn’t music you expected to hear in that environment, but it was perfectly suited, at the same time. Now, it feels like it was the pinnacle of civilization. The world really went downhill after that. Not for me, but in general.
	We stayed where we were until the very end, and everyone had walked off the now darkened stage. But as Mayfield was saying goodnight to the crowd, the last thing he actually said was, “Don’t forget about me, brother.” It now seems poignant, but at the time, I knew he was talking to me, without calling me out by name. I prefer to think he was making a general statement to everyone, and that we haven’t forgotten about him. I sure haven’t.
	I had no real idea of how to get to backstage. And I’m a man, so that means I don’t ask for directions. But we headed down in the general direction, and managed to find our way close enough that we were soon redirected there.
	Backstage at a show like that is crazy. We’re talking about thirty stage musicians, opening act included, and figure four times that many backstage personnel to handle them, if not more. Now on a post-show high, drinking, partying. Half-dressed carousing had already kicked off. Not a face we saw showed an emotion less than exuberance.
	Until we hit the green room. Mayfield was a somber man, still in his stage gear, tie and collar now loosened and unbuttoned. He sat on a couch at the far end of the room, flanked by two of his three female back-up singers. They wore gold, glittery gowns that hugged their figures and extended to their ankles. It was an enticing combination, given their exceptional beauty. The third sat on a chair to one side, and he stood to greet us. 
	“I am damn glad you decided to make it.”
	“I told you. I couldn’t miss it.”
	“A man of your word, too. But we knew that, didn’t we?”
	The girls sat on the empty couch that was opposite him, but he stayed standing, and we walked off together, leaving the gaggle of women together as Morgan and Angela excitedly engaged the singers in conversation about the night’s performance.
	We chatted about various things as he fixed himself a drink and finished it. Then he said, “Look, I’m on schedule to fly home tonight. Mrs. Mayfield is dearly expecting me. Last show of the tour. So, I’ll cut to the point. What do you think about Jade?”
	“Jade?” I thought he was referring to a gemstone.
	“Mrs. Mayfield is adamant of the subject of strays. I can’t bring her home with me.”
	He looked back at the cluster of girls around the coffee table, and I realized he was talking about one of the singers. The Asian one.
	“She’s beautiful,” I said, honestly. “They all are.”
	“Yes, but only Jade is ‘mine’. I kinda brought her out of The Life. She really can sing. But now I have nothing for her until next tour. That’s after an album. Probably six months.”
	“Damn.”
	“So, do you think you can take care of her for me? She’s a little upset, even though she knew this day was coming, months ago.”
	“I… Uh… Sure.”
	I had to think quick on my feet on that one. I had no idea where he was going with that right up until he said it. Wow. Damn.
	His face brightened considerably with relief.
	“My man. I knew you were the right one.”
	With that, he led me back over to them. 
	“Jade, honey, Mr. Clarence and friends said they would be delighted to be in your company for the near future, while we make arrangements for a return tour.”
	She stood up, the smile leaving her face in an instant, to be replaced with indifference.
	“I’ll be back, baby…”
	But he got nothing more from her, so he kissed her on the cheek.
	“I want to go,” the tall, gangly black back-up singer sitting near Jade said.
	Curtis raised his eyebrow at her, and then turned to look at me. All I could do was nod.
	“Good. See you folks on the next one,” he said, and shook my hand on his way to the door of his dressing room.
	I just stood there in stunned silence. Patra, naturally, saved the day.
	“You girls hungry?” she asked them.

Chapter 40 – Slumber Party

	This time, Patra took us all to an anonymous sort of greasy spoon, except the food was epic. That perfect stuff for when you come out of the bar kind of food, but really good. The two new girls, the singers, really put away a breakfast. We all got to know each other over coffee and messy sandwiches.
	Well, they got to know each other. I was now relegated to a background role, at least as far as the night was concerned. It was a relief to not have too much to deal with directly. Honestly, while I didn’t think I could handle Patra (who turned out to handle me, instead), I couldn’t have done anything like this without her. As it was, she smoothly facilitated the entire evening, down to sending the new girls’ luggage on ahead to the suite so we didn’t have to deal with it. Once or twice, she and Morgan made it a point to involve me in the conversation directly. But for the most part, it was girl’s night out.
	In fact, when we finally did call it a night and head back, she had already arranged for two more single beds to be installed in the piano room. I had done some thinking ahead in that regard, and that is not where my mind was ending up at all. Not where I was intending Jade to end up.
	But I hadn’t really worked out anything specific, and at the hotel, Patra wisely counseled me without directly saying anything about the situation, arranging for the new girls to bed down in the front room by themselves. She did include herself as a consolation prize, electing to spend the night with us for the first time. She and Morgan bookended me, and Angela clung to Patra, so everyone seemed happy.
	Later that night, I woke up to take a leak, and when I turned back around, I was startled to see her standing there in the dark. 
	“Come see,” she whispered, taking my hand. She led me to the front room in silence, where Jade and the other singer were sleeping cuddled together in a single bed.
	“Understand?”
	I kind of did. These weren’t average girls, despite the one’s background. I could see that from the start. If I had come in stepping all over their feelings, I doubt they would have stayed until morning. And Patra was helping to show me that they shouldn’t have in that case, furthermore. 
	She made good use of the kitchen that morning. Me and the girls awoke to the smell of coffee, and they soon joined her in prepping ingredients. Angie gently awoke the other two with cups and got their orders for omelets. Soon, we were all eating together, watching the mid-morning sun rise and talking quietly, while Patra nibbled on fruit.
	At one point, the black singer (“Mary,” she had told me. “All black female singers are named Mary.”) raised the question of an overall plan with Jade.
	“I don’t care, as long as I’m not on the road.”
	Mary seemed to be happy if Jade was happy. I still had no idea what I was going to do with any  of them. Thankfully, Patra intervened to smooth things over, as always.
	“The future is open-ended,” she told them. “But for now, we have all week here, with plenty to do.”
	With that, she pulled out a pile of brochures from the bar, and they all began to discuss the possibilities. When they were presently engaged, she took me into the bedroom and sat me by the phone. 
	“I’ll take both girls with me on a job tonight,” she began telling me. “Then I can put them to work some evenings while we’re here. Our burn rate is atrocious.”
	“What’s a burn rate?”
	“The speed with which we go through operating expenses.”
	She did have a point there, stilted language aside.
	“Then I’ll bring the other two in. By the end of the week, we’ll be back to a positive cash flow.”
	I just looked at her.
	“Now call de job, hus-bun. Someone mus’ work roun’ here…”
	With that, she rejoined the girls and finished planning their day. Our day.
	It was a real pain, back then, dealing with phone shit. The closest I could get to my boss was the field office, and rather than rely on a call back that may or may not ever happen, I elected to wait until he was rounded up, which took almost twenty minutes. Only for him to tell me I was fired as soon as I said I wouldn’t be back for a week, and then hang up.
	 Now, that was no thing, in and of itself. It wasn’t even the first time I had been fired. Twice I had busted x-rays doing plant work before I had perfected my technique. Getting another job wasn’t a problem in my occupation. It still took me aback. Everything else had changed, but I kind of felt that at least some things would stay the same. As it stood at that moment, I was entirely adrift. Untethered as a cosmonaut.
	Eventually, the girls agreed on a plan of attack for the day, guided by the ever-sly Patra. They spread out around the house in preparation, leaving me to mull the future over cooling coffee. The money situation was poor, that was for sure. Nothing had been budgeted like this, and that was before the two new girls or the extra week in town.
	I guess it’s an odd theme for a novel about pimping to keep harping on how bad I was at it, but I had never considered putting the girls to work in town while we were there. I couldn’t tell you what the protocols would be, but it would definitely require my close involvement. Which didn’t much feel like a vacation at that point. But I hadn’t even thought about it. Lucky for me, Patra had thought about everything, it seemed like.
	When we were all ready, which must have required 500 gallons of hot water from the hotel, all told, we squeezed into another cab, and I sorely missed the limo. 
	“I thought we would start small, and stay close, today,” Patra said after telling the driver where to go. “Skydiving.”
	It was a short trip, and we didn’t go to the airport. Instead, it was a place right on the strip, and we understood as soon as we got inside and saw the photos hanging in the lobby. After a moment’s consultation with her, I had rented a room for thirty minutes at a cost of four hundred dollars. The girls all rushed on ahead to get dressed, and she stayed behind with me. That was the first time I almost brought up the work situation with her and chickened out.
	 The place, Fly-Away, was wild, though. It had giant turbines in the floors covered with a grating. Wearing the suits they had fitted us with, we could hover over the fan indefinitely. With a little practice and guidance from Patra, who had clearly done it before, we were soon zooming around the room, narrowly missing collisions, and driving our beleaguered attendant insane.
	The kid did help us all join hands in a circle, though, and that turned out to be really cool. It actually felt like skydiving, at that moment. And I realized Patra had tricked us all into a team-building exercise.
	She finished our time off by showing us how to rise up to near the ceiling (which made me think of the Willie Wonka movie), and then curl into a ball, spreading back out before you hit the floor and stopping your fall. It only resulted in two bumped heads, one of them mine, which was hilarious, apparently. It was over before we knew it, and I understood that the half-hour rental was the right move. As Patra had pointed out, otherwise we would have only each gotten about 30 seconds of flight each for nearly half that much.
	For the second leg of the day, we took a shuttle, since it wasn’t far away, and a cab wasn’t exactly comfortable anymore. Shortly thereafter, we walked into a place called Wet and Wild. The lobby sold swimsuits, swim trunks, tote bags, suntan lotion, sunglasses, things like that. The girls all did the thing girls do on a shopping trip, and they spent an inordinate amount of time selecting suits, which involved multiple changes.
	This time, Patra paid for everything.
	“Business expense,” she said. 
	It was the first inkling I got that I had been mishandling my money terribly, and not just on this trip. It only took two words to open my eyes to the potential, there. Taxes mostly ate me alive at work, due to my bracket and filing status. I made a mental note to bring that up with her again later.
	Now, I kinda knew what this place was, but not really. The shuttle had let us out right in front of it, and I was too involved in escorting my entourage into the building to look up. So, I was unprepared when we stepped through the back doors and got in line for tickets.
	There was a waterslide something like seven stories tall, almost straight down. In fact, there were waterslides everywhere, each offering a different thrill. We rode them all, sometimes more than once. There was even a giant pool that made waves you could surf with bodyboards. It was late afternoon, and the sun had dipped behind the high-rises, when Patra suggested an early dinner and drinks, while we floated in the lazy river.
	It was the perfect suggestion. Our last hour was spent relaxing, full of food and drink, and I think we mostly dozed with smiles on our faces.
	Back at the hotel, another cramped cab ride later, and they all set about to showering again. It was a whirlwind of preparation that ended with Patra leaving with Morgan and Angela.
	“We’ll be back about ten, Daddy,” she said on the way out. “Have fun.”
	I went back to the bedroom to find both girls kneeling on the bed, half facing each other, my belt between them.
	“Good evening, sir…” Jade said.

Chapter 41 – Entourage

	It was an amazing week in Vegas, entirely facilitated by Patra. Jet skis at Lake Mead. Hiking. A helicopter ride to the Grand Canyon… Our days (and nights) were filled. Meanwhile, her first job with Morgan and Angela as apprentices netted me around six hundred dollars. I later found out that the portion she had turned over to me was a damn tip. She legitimately made two to three thousand dollars for a little more than an hour. And she never had sex with anyone for it, in any way.
	Not on the receiving end, at any rate.
	The way she explained it to me, she was paid as much for discretion and sympathy as anything. Her clients were rich, obviously, which translates into powerful. They paid her for the privilege of pretending to not be those things for a little while. They were all white, to hear her tell it, and the fact that she was a black female only enhanced the overall effect. Not only could she be trusted completely (blackmail was very much a thing in those circles), but she was understanding and non-judgmental. Except when her job required otherwise. Patra assured me that she was an excellent domme, and I had no doubt of her abilities, there.
	In fact, I had no doubt of her abilities in any area of life. All week, I watched her coordinate our days, schedule their nights, juggle finances, and she did it all with relative ease. One thing she wasn’t able to do was stop moving and doing. When she had gone through her Vegas clients, who regarded her appearance in town as some sort of holiday for them (I still can’t understand male submissives other than academically), she convinced a few from out of state to fly in at her request. Financial dominance, she called it. I had sort of thought she was kidding, at the time.
	All of those other things aside, the psychology never stopped. While I didn’t understand her clients, I did gain some level of knowledge about Patra herself. I think she was so smart that she liked things complicated. The more complicated the better. The way she coordinated the girls alone was masterful. Each night found me with a different combination of women. All except her, for the most part. I think she could have done without actual sex in her life entirely. How’s that for complicated?
	She spent part of her time with me filling me in on financial strategies. Everything she did seemed more criminal than my little small-time operation, and almost every bit of it was one hundred percent legal. Tax avoidance, she said, was a time-honored tradition. It was tax evasion that was illegal. In fact, the only actual crime she ever committed, technically, was in the select few clients she, uh, penetrated. For that reason alone, she charged an exorbitant amount, and wouldn’t do it for just anyone.
	Patra had not one, but two corporations in her name. One was a charity. It was a level of sophistication I had never dreamt of. Corporations were, like, Xerox, to me. Not some woman spanking rich white men. So, I received a thorough education that week. Her legitimate business profits sometimes got donated to her charity. Between the two, every aspect of her life was paid for in a way that generally reduced or eliminated her tax burden at the end of the year.
	“Pay yourself first,” she told me. No argument there. But the way she had things arranged, her income was never touched and instead went into, not savings, but long-term investments. Patra was a pimp with accountants. 
Yes, I considered Patra a pimp, more so than I was. I think those girls would have followed her anywhere. At least as long as I was in tow, and she manipulated me as thoroughly as anyone. The entire time I knew her, though, everything she did was benevolent. Beneficial, even. By the end of the week, I felt relatively comfortable in making moves in the same direction she was operating in. There was really no better time, because I had somehow blown about half of my accumulated savings by then.
All good things must come to an end, of course. The flight out went as smoothly as could be expected, due in large part to her leadership. I was a figurehead, in a sense. In another, she was my proxy. The relationship worked. Any doubts that I was a pimp when I had arrived in Vegas were erased upon my departure, with five gorgeous women who were clearly mine in tow. 
Nevermind that I had blown a large part of what had taken me years to earn. The flight was great for everyone else but me, however. The closer we got to home, the worse I felt. There was no glamour ahead. As Vegas receded in the distance, so did my confidence. Getting a new cover job wouldn’t be hard, and in theory, my income level would likely soon exceed anything I had ever made before. At the same time, something about it all didn’t feel right. I think it was the showgirls that did it to me, somehow. They were like taking exotic birds from the jungle and plopping them down in a parking lot.
Suddenly, the relatively luxurious apartment seemed small and seedy. My horizons had been expanded, but reality had yet to catch up. The only thing that distracted me from the situation even momentarily was that there was a package waiting for me when we got there. A package from Maxxy.
	I had gotten out her cipher book in anticipation of another involved letter, but in the box was just a note and a book, with no translation needed. I suspect she had outgrown her code, and I felt a little sadder knowing that. The note just said, “I stand corrected.”
	The book was a small paperback, “Farnham’s Freehold” by Robert Heinlein.
	I had no idea what she meant by that, and I didn’t understand for a week or so. Initially, I just put it aside while Patra and I reorganized. My girls got back to their regulars, aided by the twenty or so answering machine messages accumulated during our vacation. Patra pulled out her client book and started making a few calls. Soon enough, she was taking the new girls out with her. It’s a good thing, because they were not the type to streetwalk. One had, once upon a time, but those days were long gone. 
	I eventually started making calls for a new job, and got ahold of a general foreman who had always been able to use me before, due to my dual skills as welder and pimp. He was an ex-military cat, as a lot of higher-ups in that industry are. He explained to me that he’d put me on if he could, but that he wouldn’t be in the states. If I got a passport, he said, he sure could use me in Germany, though. The pay was tremendous, and the unspoken part was that there was plenty of side money to be made on top of that. More than ever.
	When I explained the lamentable situation to Patra later that evening, she said, “You don’t have a passport?” Me and my two girls (I never really did accept the others as ‘mine’) were the only ones who didn’t. Patra was international, and the performers also had them due to the nature of touring with Mayfield. “Easy ting, mi husbun,” she said, kissing me on the cheek. “A wise decision.”
	Now how is that for manipulation? She was praising me for a decision she was making. Once again, I was headed for unknown territory, guided by her patient wisdom and worldliness. I called back old dude and accepted the offer. Patra went into overdrive. She really just did enjoy challenges and complicated situations. The things other people might have felt overwhelming were where she felt most at home, somehow. Patra took on both organizing the trip and hustling up cash for it. Some nights I was home alone during those next few weeks.
	Which was fine with me, as Maxxy was trying to communicate something to me. Some of my puzzlement was erased when I finally opened it, and saw a hand-written note from her. When I read it, I understood what “I stand corrected” meant.
	“A Heinlein book with black people!” she wrote. “It addresses race, and power! Awkwardly uses the n-word!”. Smiley face. Heart. “Maxxy” written in her mixed block and cursive handwriting, which would always stay somewhat child-like and sloppy. You’d never know she was a genius by the way she wrote.
	It provided a good escape from the invisible pressure I was feeling. The idea of moving overseas was beyond intimidating. And Germany? Everything I knew about the world, or thought I did, told me that was no place for me to be. Then again, your northern types said that to me about Texas, and I had thrived there. It really wasn’t his best work, his attempt to deal with racial issues aside. “Stranger in a Strange Land” would always be my favorite. I never understood why people said he was embarrassed by it in later years. 	
	I managed to keep most of my concerns to myself, and the girls were jubilant. The move was exactly what was needed to keep the group cohesive and moving forward. The Vegas girls were not going to stick around for long in the sticks. For one thing, Patra was introducing them to high-end clients on a nightly basis. It would be trivial for one or both of them to jump ship at any time, after that. They could get set up as a mistress somewhere, or elect to work solo, poaching a few clients. Life is kind of wide-open when you’re a young and beautiful woman, if you have a good head on your shoulders, and zero responsibility. 
	Once I got all my paperwork in order, which involved all the usual hiring stuff, plus the addition of a drug test, physical, a few shots (I didn’t think Malaria was a big concern in Germany…), plus providing my passport, three weeks had elapsed. Before I knew it, I was collecting my deposit on the rental, and we were donating everything we couldn’t bring with us.
	I did take the opportunity to call both Til and my mother. Til informed me that Maxxy had been accepted to college at age fifteen. In other news, she was fifteen. Where did the damn years go? When she got on the phone, she didn’t really want to talk about school. Instead, she quizzed me on the book and what I thought about it. It was really hard getting off of the phone with them, and I definitely shed a tear or two. My mother and aunt were encouraging, I suppose, but that ship had mostly sailed. I was glad they had gotten out of the ward and seemed to be doing well. Happy. What more can you hope for people in life?
	Pretty much a month to the day we had come back from Vegas, we were touching down in Europe. Tokio was international. Except I was still Clarence, inside and out.

Chapter 42 – Willkommen in Deutschland
I had two things going for me that allowed me to step foot on foreign soil for the first time ever. First and foremost was Patra. She handled the endless details of the trip in a way that neither I nor any of my girls could. Angela was pretty capable, but she wasn’t nearly as motivated or energetic as Patra was. The rest of them simply didn’t have it in them at all, for various reasons.
	The second was that it was, to me, basically just an extended, more involved version of getting a new job. The construction work was familiar, and universal. The only change in the process was the addition of a passport and a few shots. I’ll say right now, I didn’t trust shots then, and I trust them even less now, having learned a good deal more since I was young and stupid. Luckily, I haven’t had any ill effects.
	I needed something to ease me into this, because it wasn’t just Europe, but Germany. Everything in my limited knowledge and experience told me it was no place for a black man. Again, people also said that about Texas, and I had thrived there. Patra said I was entirely off base and misinformed, and as usual, she was right.
	“So long as you’re not disrupting the natives, you’ll be fine.”
	“Who are the natives?”
	She looked at me somewhat puzzled.
	“The Germans.”
	“Oh.”
	Patra explained to me that she had always been warmly received in Germany, despite their sordid history. Or, as she told it, perhaps because of it. She went on to tell me about Jesse Owens and the 1936 Berlin Olympics, in which the Nazis were of course involved, and where swastikas were heavily present…
	In a story reminiscent of Muhammed Ali and Vietnam, in which he famously said, “Ain’t no Vietnamese ever called me a nigger,” Owens said that he was more poorly treated by his own countrymen than any German. It has been said that Hitler snubbed the gold-medal winner who single-handedly destroyed the myth of “Aryan” superiority, but I’ve also read that he didn’t shake any American winner’s hand.
	Not that Hitler wasn’t a huge piece of shit, but all world leaders were, are, and forever will be. America kills us by the millions in various ways every year. They’ve just refined their techniques. In fact, I’ve come to believe we live in the 4th Reich today. But that’s too much to get into in this book. You should study who founded NASA and the NSA.
	Germany was pretty cool from the jump. If I thought Patra’s American clients loved her, the Germans were fanatical about her. She hadn’t been there in nearly two years, and a few of them met us at the airport, with a warm reception. Three men, one whom which brought his entire family, wife, kids, everything. It was all hugs and incomprehensible chatter. Of course Patra was fluent in German. What couldn’t she do?
	We were pre-checked into a luxury hotel, and once again, our luggage went off without us, as we were given the full tourist treatment, including a brief tour via taxi, leading to an authentic German dinner, complete with big steins of beer. It was almost like two separate groups at one big table, as she sat near the “natives” as they all spoke to each other in German, and me and the other girls just sort of ate and took it all in. Morgan and Angela were the most impressed. These poor girls had never been anywhere, just like me. It felt good to see their horizons expanded in such a grand manner. The other two had been around the world, but mostly only saw backstage, hotels, and mattresses.
	After a two-hour dinner and an irregular amount of beer, they said their goodbyes. As they were leaving, Patra said to one of them, “Krell?”, to which he replied, “Ja”, and handed her a packet. In the ride back to the hotel, I said, “What was that about?”
	“This?” she said, handing it to me. “A gift. I have to go out tonight, I thought it might keep you all entertained.”
	I didn’t open it in front of the girls, because I kind of knew. They didn’t ask about it, wisely, and at the hotel, I flushed it. Crazy, I know, but we had been off of the coke for about a month and half. I couldn’t see starting back up. It’s never a one-time thing. I’m pretty proud of myself for that. I mean, do you know what it’s like to fool around with four coked-up whores? No, of course you don’t. That’s why you read about it instead of writing about it. But, for the record, four non-coked-up whores are also pretty fun.
	 The next day I told Patra, and she never did that again. I had enough nervous energy as it was. Being out of the country did it, for one thing. But the other was just because I was hiring on to a new job. I think that always makes a lot of people nervous, no matter what. Probably because incomes are so vital to our survival. I felt that way even though I didn’t technically need a job at all, other than as a cover story and to account for the money I spent.
	It was a Liquified Natural Gas plant. If you don’t know how complicated something like that is, imagine walking around inside a computer motherboard. No, that’s not right. Imagine being inside a computer processor. It was a five-year project, and the ground was just being broken. I was already hired in, and didn’t actually have anything to worry about. But that didn’t stop me from worrying.
	Patra had the work lined up on her side, too. There was no shortage of money or interest in Germany. In fact, they were all busier than ever. The money started rolling in again, only about 25% of it was American currency. The rest was Marks, Francs, Pounds, Lira. It was complicated just keeping track of all the exchange rates. Once I had settled in at work (there was nothing for me to weld for months, which was sort of the plan), I took to sightseeing and traveling in my off time.
	I’d usually just take a girl or two with me. Sometimes I even went out alone, a few times for a whole weekend, even.
	Europe is a trip. It’s, I don’t know, the size of Texas. Changing countries is quicker and easier than traveling state to state in the U.S., by far. You can accidentally walk into another country, in fact. And that’s how little emphasis there was on borders, too. Other than major thoroughfares, there weren’t hardly ever any restrictions on where you could go. Unless you wanted to go to East Germany.
	No one wanted to go to East Germany. Aside from that, Europeans were pretty cool about everything. They were friendly all over, for the most part, and didn’t make me feel like a freakshow. Because, I gotta say, at that time, there weren’t a lot of black people over there. At least not in the parts of Germany I visited. Meeting some of them was wild, too. Because they didn’t think of themselves as black, but as Germans. Or as black Germans, I guess. But it was mostly secondary to them. It’s a stark contrast to how we are in the states.
	There were clubs, though, for sure. Most weekends, the girls wanted to go dancing and drinking. That wasn’t my sort of thing, of course, but I was obligated to attend as chaperone and security. Protecting my investments. The problem was, German women were pretty intensely interested in me, some of them, but I had a small army of loyal, jealous hoes. So I didn’t take the bait, for the most part. Several put themselves on offer to work for me, but the vibe just wasn’t right. If I had met one that had fit in and jibed with the other girls, I would have taken them up on it. But I never did. I did sleep with a few of them on the low, and they mostly enjoyed it more than I did. Go figure.
	We all adapted and settled into the routine surprisingly easily. Within a few months, my money was back up. Not to pre-Vegas levels, but it was decent. More to the point, Patra helped me incorporate in Connecticut, twice. One for profit, and one non-profit. That and the basic principles of money laundering went a long way. With the per diem paying my living expenses tax free, I was able to invest more or less my entire salary into the market. Stocks and bonds. The saving grace is that the government can’t track what you spend. If that ever changes, I think we’ll all be fucked.
	She taught me about high and low risk investments, something a pimp knows a little about. But the other thing I started putting money into was real estate. Because Patra was a real whiz in this area. Apparently before she became a domme, she had a realtor’s license. She was successful at that, too, naturally. But, she said, a bank had basically fucked her over for no reason, putting a hold on a major deposit, causing her to lose a big client and a bunch of money.
	She and I didn’t even have to talk about why. Sometimes bad shit happens to you just because you’re black. It’s not even worth discussing with white people because it just sounds like excuses or paranoia. If only you could spend some time in my shoes. Or Patra’s. So she renounced the straight world of banking and real estate, turned in her license and never looked back. Now she owned more land than she knew what to do with, and frequently flipped properties over the phone for outrageous profit. Patra said she owned a mountain in Appalachia, and I didn’t doubt her at all.
	The other thing I did at her behest was sign up with the same accounting firm she used. This was some counterintuitive shit that I wouldn’t have ever done on my own. Even with her urgings and explanations, I was extremely reluctant to turn over my finances to some outside agency. Matter of fact, it was the first and only time I really became suspicious of her and her intentions. Part of me was convinced it was a long-term hustle that was going to result in my account being drained and her ghosting me. 
What happened instead was that I got monthly reports on how my money was doing. I deposited a hundred percent of my income and per diem, because the government also doesn’t care if your finances make any sense, as long as they get theirs. Within three months of doing that, combined with the initial lump sum I had on account, the income from investments began to dwarf the cost of the accountants. Patra assured me that the real savings would come at tax time, and of course she was proven right there, too.
	So money was no longer a problem. In fact, we took to juicing the Germans for a lot more than the girls were pulling down in the states. Scarcity breeds value or something, I think the phrase is. They were rare, and beautiful, and in demand. There were some gorgeous black women in Germany, to be sure. But they weren’t hoes. And if they were, they weren’t my hoes.
	Morgan and Angela had really mastered the upsell. I’m sure it was as much stuff Patra had taught them as anything, but the money came to me, either way. The other two did okay. They fetched a fair price, but they really didn’t think of themselves as whores, and did pretty much the bare minimum. Ordinarily, that would have been a red flag. But I still had to eat at least sixty hours a week at work, and I wasn’t one to rock my own boat too hard, at that point.
	Patra’s contribution was our lodging and accommodations. The entire time I was there, I never paid rent, bills, anything. My primary expenses were food and fuel. Now, gas is some crazy stuff in Europe. They sell it in liters, not gallons, and a liter there costs what a gallon does here. That’s why they drive tiny cars in a lot of places. Not so much Germany, which naturally featured a lot of Mercedes for the upper class. But even then, post-gas crisis, it was the dawn of the Jetta and cars like that. Plus, you have never seen so many Volkswagen beetles in your life. 
	Patra taught me a lot of crazy stuff about Germany. I didn’t know Volkswagen was a Nazi brand. It literally means “The People’s Car” in German. The fact that the name didn’t change after WWII tells you a lot about America, and the world. But that’s just scratching the surface. Some of the stuff she told me led to my fascination with that era, after a time. It slowly became a subject of mild academic study for me. At this point, I honestly believe we live in the 4th Reich in America, at this point.
	That’s probably the most controversial statement in a book full of them, so allow me to explain. It’s a touchy subject, even today, and only my skin color keeps people from accusing me of being a Nazi myself when I talk about it. It’s not just the subject of polite discussion. After breaking it down for me one evening as she and I sipped warm beers while the girls frolicked (they were basically given a pass by me to do cocaine as long as it was free and didn’t interfere with my life – a major attraction of the nightclub lifestyle they favored), she recommended a life-changing, eye-opening book. It was the first of many academic tomes, but the most important of the bunch.
	I.G. Farben, she said, was a chemical plant. Something I well understood. Actually, though, it was a plant owned by an umbrella corporation of the same name. Umbrella corporation, or something like that. A joint venture of several corporations. The Germans really were hard-working and industrious, and that kinda worked against the rest of the world, I guess. Or the people who purported to run it.
	To hear Patra tell it, Germany was considered sort of a threat to what she called “global hegemony”. They were efficient and intelligent in their business and industry, and in the early 1900s, they were coming up hard compared to the rest of the world. They didn’t have much of anything by way of natural resources, so being industrious was the only way they could prosper as a people. They weren’t lazy, I’ll tell you that.
	On one hand, Farben researchers were the saviors of Germany industry because of their invention of what are called synthetic dyestuffs. Now this doesn’t sound like a big deal in the modern age. Everything is synthetic, it seems like. But back then, dyes were still derived from the natural world. Indigo, blue, essentially, for example was hella expensive, because it came primarily from the indigo plant. This natural approach was increasingly at odds with the demands of a growing population. And this applied to all dyes.
	Synthetic dyes were a big breakthrough, in other words. It’s one of the things that led to today’s notion that anything can just be synthesized in a laboratory. In a sense, the German attitude, decidedly non-naturalist, became the pervading mode of thought world-wide. 
	The flips side of all this otherwise seemingly unimportant discovery was that the rest of the world was concerned with Germany’s growing economic dominance. This led to World War I, which was literally started over some dumb shit. But that’s a part of the history books. What it actually achieved, however, was forcing the German government to put pressure on I.G. Farben to produce more synthetics. Namely gunpowder, gasoline, and rubber. War material. Materiel, Janice just said. Whatever.
	This is part of where it gets fascinating, to me. Gunpower was mostly nitrate, and all of its components were mined from the Earth. In those days, mostly places in South America. So it wasn’t too hard to cut the supply off. Awareness of their vulnerability is what led to the development of the synthetic gunpowder. Most people don’t know that almost everything in their lives today is derived from petroleum. That’s why I laugh at people who want to get rid of cars or whatever. 95% of civilization would die off in a year if we didn’t have oil. Almost anything today that isn’t wood, cotton, or an animal is a byproduct of oil. 
	They didn’t have a lot of luck with synthetic rubber back then, but obviously that was possible, and it exists in various forms today. What they did also develop, though, was synthetic gasoline. I can’t tell you what it was made from, but they did the damn thing, in the 30s, no less. But it wasn’t considered cost-effective.
	There’s no way it’s not cost effective now. We are definitely being lied to. Just like the notion that oil comes from dinosaurs or whatever crazy stuff they teach us in school. Oil comes from what is called an abiotic process deep inside the earth. It’s definitely renewable. Old wells that were capped off can be reopened a decade or two later, and are ready to be pumped again. The notion of scarcity is what’s artificial. In fact, one could make the argument that the defense industry hustle itself is just oil company shit. A huge part of the military budget is fuel.
	This effort Germany put into looking ahead prepared them for WWII. With even more perspective now, I daresay this was all contrived as well. It was a play for the global stage. Because did you know the British royal family are of German descent? That fascism was very popular in England until it became unfashionable with the rise of Hitler? Hitler, whom (I don’t say ‘whom’. – Tokio.) (Who does? – Janice.) I should remind you, was on the cover of Time Magazine as Man of the Year, once. Now they say it wasn’t a celebration of him, but of course it was.
	So, during WWII, the Farben plant drew more power than the city of Berlin itself. That’s staggering, if you know how big Berlin is. Naturally, a lot of the labor was derived from POWs. The camps you know as death camps were actually labor camps. Prisoners woke up at something like 4 am, marched ten miles to work at the plant for 12 hours, then marched back. If they fell out, they were useless. Killed.
	The operators of the plant eventually decided this wasn’t the best use of their labor pool, and built a new camp, which you would know as Auschwitz III, on site. 
	The kicker of all of this, which I assure you is just the tip of the iceberg where concerns the intrigue surrounding WWII, is this. Some of the primary members of Interessen-Gemeinschaft Farbenindustrie AG? Bayer, AGFA, BASF, and Kodak…
	The plant I was working at in Berlin was a BASF facility! I ate Bayer aspirin for headaches, and we all used Kodak film and cameras. What people consider good old American companies were literally part of the Nazi war machine. The company that became IBM and invented the entire computing industry did information technology out of New York for the Nazis during the war. Openly.
	Once you combine that knowledge with the fact that we brought something like 8,000 Nazi leaders and scientists to the U.S. after WWII, and they headed up the agencies that became NASA and the NSA (Which most people don’t even know exists. They are bigger than the CIA, and far less well-known...), then I submit to you that my premise, that we in the U.S. (if not the world) live under the 4th Reich as envisioned by Hitler, becomes irrefutable.
	It’s not a subject of casual conversation, and it’s not hard to see why. “What luck for rulers that men do not think.” – Adolf Fucking Hitler… (“Like the fascism/corporatism quote attributed to Mussolini, possibly apocryphal. But no less true, regardless.” – Janice.)
	Of course, my dumb ass was working hard and reading a lot when I wasn’t working. I got complacent. Two things happened almost simultaneously that snapped me out of it: the performers bounced on me out of the blue, going back on the road with Mayfield, who was clearly 10x the pimp I would ever be, without actually doing any pimping, and I got a phone call from a Ms. Maxine Jackson of Los Angeles, California.



	 