

Pageburner
     By Jason Z. Christie Copyright 2011 Jason Z. Christie

Dedicated to Johnnie Christie

Chapter 1 - A Fishy Tale
      Detective Paige Burner sighed and pushed open the door that led into the Laguna Niguel Ritz-Carlton's suite seven. She was immediately struck by the pungent odor of decaying seafood.
      "Bleh," she said, grimacing in mock disgust. The truth was, Paige can and has eaten sandwiches next to mutilated bodies writhing with maggots, where the victim fully lost control of their bowels before or after death. Simpler smells, like pooled and drying blood, were almost comforting.
      The uniformed officer in charge of the crime scene, Clement Blankenship, greeted her at the door.
      Blankenship was one of those wannabes who would never in a million years graduate to detective status. She held a general disdain for long-term uniformed officers in the abstract, and for Blankenship in the specific.
      Paige felt that uniformed officers were fake cops. Street janitors. If you didn't aspire to make detective, in her mind, you were lazy, ignorant, or corrupt.
      Uniformed officers didn't solve crimes. And more often than not, they committed them. Low-paid, uneducated, if they didn't steal dope money, they were sadists that took joy in human misery and beating suspects.
      "Ah, Detective Burner! So good to see you," Blankenship lied. He was an ugly little man, all balding head and decaying buckteeth. "What we have here is..." His eyes began to wander toward her chest. In another moment, he'd begin stammering.
      Paige cut him off. It was best to not let him get worked up in the first place. "Has the scene been disturbed?" she inquired.
      "No one has been into the bathroom, the actual site of the altercation."
      She winced internally at his misuse of terminology. Buffoons like Blankenship tried to use stilted speech, and often failed spectacularly at it. The department was trying to breed it out of them, because it hurt them in the courtroom when they testified.
      "But," he said, "About ten P.C. have been in here, and about four of us uniformed officers. The victim is, uh, in the state of being nude. Disrobed."

      "Plainclothesmen?" she asked. She knew what he meant, but felt like subtly chiding him.
      "Affirmative. Detective Gautier, Detective Charles, Detect..." Paige cut him off again. She was in no mood for repetitive brayings from a jackass.
"Thanks, Clement. That'll be all. I'll take it from here." "Are you sure? I could..."
"Quite sure, Clem. Thanks."
      Duly chastised, Blankenship had already slunk away, leaving behind only the faint, forgettable aura of a second-rate officer.
      Paige was called in for the oddball murder scenes, the cases that had officers with twice her years on the force scratching their heads at the onset. This was undoubtedly going to be a doozy.
      Now she could relax and work in peace and silence. She set her Rubbermaid bag down and donned her forensics gear: surgical scrubs, hairnet, O.R. mask, and gloves. Few were as meticulous as she.
      Humming "Ode to Joy", she turned the corner that led to the over- sized bathroom. Such opulent surroundings were rarely the setting for murders. Splayed awkwardly across the cold tile floor, under bright lights, was the corpse of an attractive thirty-something year old woman. No wonder they took so long to call her, she thought. Her body was perfect.
      She raised her Nikon and began snapping photos before ever entering the bathroom. Considering it, she removed her shoes to enter in her stocking feet. This was one aspect of detective work she could never decide on. Outside shoes could bring in contaminants: dirt, dog shit, etcetera. But shoe covers could also remove evidence. When working alone, she usually worked barefooted or in pantyhose. She liked working alone.
      The victim, a Ms. Maureen Bedford, lay on her back with her head facing the Jacuzzi tub. Her blond ringlets were matted, soaking in a puddle of blood that had already congealed to the consistency of thick Karo syrup. No flies in the Ritz at least, Paige mused. They would come, she knew. They always did.
      Having read a scant dossier on Ms. Bedford, now Maureen to her, she knew she was unique, even for this upper-upper class coastal neighborhood. You don't remain an unmarried woman here often, except in a few cases: gay, painfully ugly, or extremely eccentric. And Maureen was quite a catch.

      Her file didn't contain info on her family, but Paige knew the name. Descendants of a real estate mogul, the Bedford children each had a considerable nest egg. The four were probably sitting on twenty million or so apiece.
      Jealousy, money and revenge being the primary motives for murder in Paige's mind, net wealth and the bottom line had to be considered. And money was hard to forget in Laguna Niguel, where this branch of the Ritz- Carlton made other Ritz-Carltons look like Holiday Inns.
      She loved the view from this hotel. Looking to the west, you saw the endless expanse of the Pacific, but also the cove that the Ritz inhabited. At nine a.m., it was already populated with nannies pushing strollers, gold- diggers in French-cut bikinis, and older men in Speedos and gold chains, trolling for either of the other two.
      Opposite the slight inlet the hotel occupied, there was a private residence nearly the size of the hotel, and twice as ostentatious, all shining glass and metal. It was probably a forty million dollar home, minimum.
      One of Paige's first assignments as a uniformed officer was to escort a bewildered pair of married servants from that property. The couple, good- hearted but naive domestics from the south, learned the hard way about what happens if you stand up for yourselves against the super-rich.
      They had apparently angered their boss. Their owner, really, Paige thought. And thus found themselves summarily evicted from the house on a Sunday morning, without warning.
      It was hard for her to do, back then, because she understood the situation. Still, legally, the property owners could throw anyone out, live-in servants or not. But she didn't enjoy it, and such interactions discolored her view of the elite.
      Returning from her brief daydream, she gingerly padded into the room to gather evidence. She often didn't like to receive the analysis of others beforehand, when working a scene. She didn't want their preconceived notions to shape her view of events.
      She snapped shots of the gorgeous-in-repose female body on the floor, including several close-ups. You never really knew what clues the photos might hold later, when the actual body had been vivisectioned, stuffed and mounted, or cremated. And she knew, as hot as this chick was, she'd probably be mounted and stuffed several times on the coroner's table.

Necrophilia was a privilege afforded that morbid profession. Everyone on the force knew it, but few discussed it.
      So, it was best to get all of your evidence on the first pass. Paige didn't usually leave a scene before she felt she'd solved the case, anyway.
      She had graduated top of her class from the academy. This was no small task. She had worked her fingers to the bone, mentally and physically. She had endured hardships and trauma, repeated hazings, and even out-right threats.
      In the end, she was their superior, and she never quite forgave or forgot the type of cretins who'd impeded her. She carried her dedication to excellence with her throughout her career.
      While taking artful photos of the reclining nude, she noticed what had sent the other detectives running, and was also the source of the dead fish smell. A large Maine lobster, blue-green, lay on its back between the toilet and wastebasket, its claws open, tail extended. It was a big one, and her mouth watered slightly.
      Rock lobster, B-52s aside, was for suckers. Maine lobster was the eatin' kind. Boil for nine to twelve minutes, serve with real butter and ground garlic, a hint of sea salt and a fine wine. Yum.
      Paige shuddered and reminded herself to let someone not entirely distasteful take her out to dinner soon. She wanted lobster and to get laid, in that order. Forced to choose, she'd settle for the lobster and an enjoyable conversation.
      The future cadaver/necrophilia-subject-to-be mostly attended to, she redirected her focus on the ill-fated decapod, which belonged either in the North Atlantic, or in someone's stomach. Paige had once wanted to become an oceanographer or marine biologist, until 'Jaws' came out when she was six. Thanks, Mr. Spielberg.
      It was too bad she never got to utilize her marine biology knowledge, she thought. After snapping an abundance of photos of this dinner that got away, she produced an evidence bag, labeled it, and placed the lobster inside. She put the bag on the countertop, with the lobster lying on its back. For fun, she examined it with a biologist's eye. It was an adult American lobster, about three pounds or so, female. Examining the swimmerets on the abdomen, she noted brine shrimp eggs and a few dead hatchlings.

      This was symbiosis in action. The brine shrimp, sea monkeys to laymen, often spawned there, giving their eggs a fighting chance at survival. Unless the lobster was harvested. And this one was fresh, no more than two days from the sea. Three, max. Otherwise the shrimp would have all hatched by now.
      Now donning her detective's hat, she performed forensics on the lobster. The cephalothorax, or main shell, wasn't cracked. It was too supple before boiling to crack, but it was bruised, indicating it may have been thrown or dropped. The facial region: eyes, brain, mouth and maxillipeds, was covered with ash. Interesting. Paige had no doubt that under the ash was a mass of burns.
      She turned her attention to the ashtray on the counter, ignored until now. She counted eight butts, two with lipstick. Using her tweezers, she examined each in turn, after taking a few photos of their initial arrangement. She bagged them together as she examined them.
      After she removed five of them, she found a roach buried in the ash. Unsurprising. This was California. Everyone, even a lot of cops, smoked pot. Paige certainly did, before work, after work. Occasionally at lunch. It made her a better detective, she felt, and relieved stress, helping her to sleep at night.
      She brought it to her nose and inhaled, trying to place the strain. It smelled like Purple Haze, a potent, smooth-smoking hybrid favored by smokers with money. The hard weed-heads smoked B.C. bud from Vancouver, or whites, rhino and widow. But there was a base note to the scent she didn't immediately recognize, a faint candy smell reminiscent of opium. On a whim, she left the bathroom and began to search the suite.
      Within a few minutes, she had her answer. She found most of an eighth of Haze. She knew her weed. In the baggie was a piece of foil. Inside of that were three cubes of rock cocaine. This was a package deal some sellers offered. For a hundred dollars, you got a sack of high-grade hydro and five stones.
      So, considering the lack of a pipe, the pack of Job Crystal papers, the roach, and the smell emanating from it, Paige concluded that the joint was a primo, marijuana laced with crack. And a good primo could burn for nearly ten minutes, she noted. Neither here nor there, but a good investigator considered everything, significant or not.

      She returned to the lavatory, pocketing the herb sack. No need to shame the victim after death. The coroner's toxicology report would show traces of THC and cocaine anyway, but that wouldn't be widely known or reported.
      Paige refocused on the wounds. Wound, in this case. Obviously, there was no gunshot involved, or stab wound. Blunt force trauma seemed most likely, but she knew poisoning or overdose could have had the same effect.
      The victim, she surmised, was most likely struck in the head, assuming murder was the case. Barring that, one possibility remained. But the other half of the murder dichotomy was often not considered by many murder investigators: It might not have been a murder at all.
      True, a long shot could mean that something akin to poisoning or overdose could have resulted in Lady Maureen falling over and striking her head on the floor. But what if that wasn't the cause? Yes, you could fall out from smoking crack, or even have a heart attack, but it wasn't very common in small amounts such as this. Maureen was a "chipper", an amateur. A light, weekend smoker.
      The autopsy would reveal more, but Paige wanted to know, now. She still had time to get herself a lobster for lunch, if she wrapped this up. She went back into the suite and called the front desk. "This is room seven. Do we have lobster on the menu?"
"Yes, ma'am. Shall I send up another one?"
      Paige paused. "No, thanks. I'll come down for lunch. Please have the chef prepare a two-pound lobster, with a Catalina chef's salad and a glass of Zinfandel."
"Certainly, madam."
The staff was polite to a fault.
###
      So the front desk clerks still thought the Bedford woman was alive. In California, catering to the wealthy depended heavily upon discretion. Apparently the maid who found her was not the gossipy type.
      Paige shed her forensics gear near the door to the hallway, so as to drop as few foreign hairs as possible, revealing a lithe body clad in tasteful business attire. In the hall, she shook her head, letting her own shockingly red tresses cascade down her neck and shoulders. Finally, she donned her bookish, vaguely horn-rimmed glasses and moved on.

      The glasses were just that: glass. She didn't need glasses to see, having twenty-thirty vision, but glasses were sexier. They implied intelligence, somehow, and she felt intelligence was sexy.
      Not that she had trouble attracting men. It was all about attracting the right sort of man, when you got down to it.
The ma�tre d' practically tripped over his Gucci loafers to seat her. "Hi," she said, "I phoned ahead for lunch a few minutes ago. Room
seven?"
      "Certainly, madam. Right this way. Your meal shall be out shortly." He pulled out her chair, seated her, and silently padded away.
      Thank god he didn't say something awkward about a beautiful lady such as herself eating alone, Paige thought. She sometimes considered wearing a fake wedding ring, but had always decided, why limit herself? It's not like she wouldn't marry, much less date, a ma�tre d', if he was "Mr. Right". Or even a Mr. "Right Now".
      In less than a minute, a small army of Chicanos and out-of-work actors set upon her table like reverse locusts. At the two-minute mark, she found herself alone again, with her salad, which was sumptuous, her wine, aromatic, and three steaming, fresh-from-the-oven croissants.
      The butter was of course, real butter and she had to have at least one croissant, so she dug in with ladylike grace combined with mannish hunger. Already, this was more food than she should eat in one sitting. Not one to fill up on bread, she had the salad and lobster to consider. She worked out too hard and often to let her stomach get distended. Better to eat smaller meals more often than to develop a pooch.
      She spiked a cherry tomato and savored it. Organic, she knew. Most high-end food in California was, which was one of the reasons she settled here. It was French dressing, she noted, not Catalina. Most Cali chefs considered Catalina dressing to be French dressing for white trash, suitable for picnics and patrons of dining establishments such as Ryan's, and therefore wouldn't allow it to be served with their food, period. Chefs were fussy that way.
      Oh well, she mused, I'm not paying for it. So she ate and drank, and thought deeply. Paige knew instinctively that she was missing something and needed to reconnoiter her thoughts.
      She idly fingered the sack of irie in her pocket, but decided against it. As a rule, that was her reward, not her crutch. It was her breakfast, along

with coffee, and her prize at the end of a hard day's work. But sometimes she slipped and took a few tokes at mid-day to clear her head and think about a case in a different way.
      Like clockwork, the well-oiled restaurant machinery arrived with a bright-orange steaming lobster as she reached the three-quarters point of her salad. Timing was everything.
      Now she was glad she had stopped with one roll, as delicious as it was. The lobster was big, probably a full pound bigger than she had specified. T.S Elliot, she thought, I'm eating it all.
      She began with the claws, cracking them with the nutcracker provided. That was her nickname at the police academy, of course. She was called nutcracker, for more than one reason. In hand-to-hand training, often against officers much bigger than herself, she wasn't averse to hitting below the belt. Or kicking. Or biting, for that matter.
      The garlic butter, combined with the freshest lobster you could get short of cooking it on a boat, actually made her a little wet. It was culinary ecstasy.
      She ate some of the top half of her baked potato, but had no intention of eating it all. She got her potassium from a chemical supply house in Pomona, of all places. She had slathered it in cheese, butter and bacon from the crystal dishes provided with more than a little guilt. I'll work out on Sunday too, she rationalized.
      The rest of her meal was a near feral experience. She all but grunted as she ate the second claw and started in on the tail. This, she decided, was better than sex. Slightly. Better than bad sex, anyway.
      For a moment, she thought lovingly of her Hello Kitty vibrator waiting patiently in her underwear drawer at home, and then resumed her feast. She tried to slow down, but she had a serious case of the munchies, and was starting to realize what she had overlooked.
      A few minutes later, having eaten all of the lobster, Paige stood, straightened her skirt and went back to the day's case, after a brief trip to the hotel restaurant's ladies room.
      In the restroom, she had a revelation. She could barely wait to finish peeing before rushing to her vehicle for more forensics gear. All she needed was her black light, but she also grabbed a few sterile airtight containers.
      Paige took the stairs to the first floor instead of waiting for the elevator, and had to discipline herself when she got there to wear her clean

room attire.
      Properly dressed and a little calmer, she reentered the bathroom and crouched by the toilet. It was difficult to discern, but she thought she had the missing piece of the puzzle.
      When she turned off the fluorescents and turned on the black light, she knew she had solved it. She dialed the office.
"Chief, you need to come down here. I figured it out."
      Paige had it knocked out, but the last step had to be done before the chief got to the hotel, for decorum's sake. She grabbed a spoon from the minibar. There was no real need to sterilize it, but she heated it under the tap for two minutes, and dried it on a clean hand towel. She had minimized the contaminants, at least.
      High profile case that it was, or would be, she knew he would be here soon, so she had to act fast. She returned to the bathroom and took a picture of the late Ms. Bedford so she could reposition her later.
      Carefully, she spread the dead girl's legs. She then lay down on the floor and put her face close to her crotch.
      Spreading the labia minora with her gloved left hand, Paige spied her prize, this time visible to the naked eye. She used the spoon deftly.
      "Just hold still, sweetheart. You won't feel a thing. I even warmed it up for you."
      She bagged and tagged her last piece of evidence, then smoothed the deceased's vaginal lips back into place, and reclosed her legs.
      Just to be sure, she checked the viewfinder of her camera, and made a few adjustments. Satisfied, she sat on the bed and waited.
      She could have left the body in its new position, but Paige felt the woman deserved a little decency in death. She thought about it some more, and then got up and covered her with a crisp linen sheet from the hall closet. Now she could relax.
      Ten minutes later, the chief was banging the door down. He was a bit high-strung.
"Who is it?" she teased.
       "Open the goddamn door, Burner. This is a bunch of goddamn bullshit!"
Paige smirked and then opened the door. "Calm down, boss. She's not going anywhere." The chief, Terry to her, exhaled sharply.

      "Her family is hot! This is a big deal with them, personally and financially. I don't know the specifics, but for someone found dead at 7:00 A.M., there's been a ton of pressure applied to the department. What have you come up with?"
      Terry had basically exhaled this mini-rant without breathing. He was going to blow a gasket someday, Paige thought with some concern.
"Chief, this was not a murder. Relax." "Not a murder! How can you be so sure?" Paige shot a plucked eyebrow upward.
"I know, I know, you're Paige Burner, girl wonder. So what's the
deal?"
"This, Chief, is a clear-cut case of death by misadventure. But be
warned, the details might be worse than murder."
      It was now Terry's turn to raise an eyebrow. He remained silent for a change, indicating she needed to spill the beans.
"Chief, you're not going to believe me, but the lab will confirm it.
Doubt me and you owe me a dinner."
      "Steak." she added, considering the circumstances. "Ms. Bedford checked into the hotel for the weekend and ordered a live lobster. She then proceeded to get high and masturbate her Graftenberg area with the lobster tail."
      Terry exploded. "That's the biggest bunch of goddamn bullshit I've ever heard, Burner."
      "Ssshhh," Paige said, applying her index finger to his lips. He calmed and quieted. She had that effect on men.
      "By inserting the lobster tail and burning its face, she was able to induce it to flex its abdomen, thus reaching orgasm. It was some sort of freaky fetish."
      Terry exhaled, exasperated. He strained, trying to remain calm. But he had to take this story to the family. He found himself wishing she had been murdered after all.
      "Ok, I follow you so far. But how did you piece this together before," he looked at his watch, "two in the afternoon, and how does it translate into a dead body?"
      "She got high and masturbated herself to sleep last night. She then urinated before she went to bed, and neglected to flush the toilet.

      In the morning, she got up to use the bathroom once again. I think she saw something frightening, fainted, hit her head, and never woke up. She passed out from the concussion and bled to death."
      "How do you know this, Encyclopedia Brown?" he asked, still perturbed.
      "Check it out," she told him, and led him into the bathroom. She didn't flip the switch, but instead turned on her black light again and motioned to the toilet.
      Terry looked closely, and saw tiny glowing creatures swimming to and fro.
"What the hell?"
"Sea monkeys, Chief. Brine shrimp."
      Terry gave no reaction at all, so she continued. "They sometimes lay eggs that get attached to the underside of the lobster's tail."
      She paused. "Thinking about it, I bet those little feet really tickle your clit. I'd have put a condom on it, though."
      She didn't expect a laugh, and wasn't disappointed. Few on the force shared her sense of humor.
      "Sooo, anyway. She didn't flush last night. The chlorine dissipated from the water overnight. Two applications of salt from her urine created the little biosphere we see here. She undoubtedly saw them on her, felt them, something like that."
      "In fact..." she turned on the light and looked in the waste basket. "The lack of toilet paper in the toilet means she probably threw some in there. When women urinate, it flushes down the vagina, in part. So we can't just shake it off and put it away like you boys do. At any rate, she was freaked out enough to faint. And so here we are."
She closed the door behind them as they exited.
      "What else ya' got?" she asked with a twinkle. "Tomorrow. I have a few things to do at home tonight."

Chapter 2 - Just a Good Old Boy
      Jean Simons was a good old boy. Insofar as it was possible to be a good old boy Yankee genetic researcher in Alabama.
      And it was mostly possible, except for the Yankee part. Alabama actually has a rich, tech-heavy tradition due to the presence of NASA. NASA led to the formation of companies like Intergraph, maker of high-end graphic workstations. Being an outsider, though, was always a sticking point.
      He was well regarded at the university, at least. Being a PhD candidate, he had a lot of pull. College tends to mostly dissolve regional differences after a while, anyway.
      Still, a certain amount of hazing and teasing was inevitable. Such was the fraternity of men, regardless of their origins.
      "Damn, Jean," his research partner and roommate James was fond of saying, "If you had another 'm' in your name, you'd be a rock star."
      This was James's standard Kiss joke, which he mainly pulled out to impress some hot, impressionable sophomore girl.
      "If you had a fucking dick, you'd be a man." Jean had once replied, which had pretty much shut that down. "Your name is fucking James Brown."
      It didn't hurt that this little exchange had occurred at the student union cafeteria, in front of a group of their peers. After that, the two were able to put qualms aside and focus on academics. And the name of the game was genetic research.
      It was an exciting field, pretty much wide-open for the motivated researcher out to make a name for himself. And Jean and James were both pretty driven, if by differing motivations.
      James, "Jimbrowski" to Jean, was determined to stamp out Multiple Sclerosis in his lifetime. His mild obsession began back in elementary school with the M.S. Read-A-Thons. He had read his young ass off, trying to save kids his own age from becoming wheelchair-bound or paralyzed.
Jean had no such altruistic streak.
      James never caught on that "Jimbrowski" meant "dick" in the northeast. Northerners, even the nerds, were generally crueler than all but the most psychotic southerners. It was simple genetics and environment. The scarcity and harsh environs of the northern climate produced more hardened individuals by default.

      On some level, academically, James had to know this, but never really applied the knowledge. Jean used it often. He was full of biological theories of his own, and he didn't hesitate in applying them to his advantage, particularly when it came to women.
      For instance, he ignored what he considered nature's false beauty cues. Blonde hair is highly favored in western society because it correlates to an ability to reproduce, on a subconscious level. The attributes men generally find desirable in women almost all relate to viability of reproduction. And Jean had no desire to reproduce.
      This afforded him a certain selectivity, and allowed him to alter the dating dynamic, to a degree. Jean called it broken wing syndrome. He had arranged a number of biological facts into a formula he applied with much success.
      Women, in part, are biologically driven by a need for attention. They can also be quite competitive among themselves.
      First of all, the more attractive you are, the harder he would ignore you. The really gorgeous women became practically invisible. If he did get forced to talk to a woman, he still wouldn't express the slightest bit of interest. Interested females would then escalate their own actions and attentions, making it clear to Jean that they were interested and receptive.
      He likened it to a bird pretending to have a broken wing. Women are also programmed to respond to authority. Even if you are the captain of the chess team, there are women who respond favorably to that simple position of perceived power. Jean made sure he was always prominent in various organizations and academically.
      Blondes got ignored the most. If he was given a choice, it was always the brunette or the redhead. Even race was a factor. Black girls over white girls, etcetera. The point was to trigger a naturally occurring desire to be noticed and win in competition.
      He would never approach or respond favorably to the prettiest girl in a group. Number two tried harder, and also raised the ire of numbers one and three. Likewise, the slightly older girl inflamed and drove the younger one to prove herself worthy of attention.
      Women were generally attracted to one of three things: intelligence, brutality or security.
      He naturally had the intelligence factor down. But the sad fact of life was that women were usually most attracted to brutal men. Because from a

biological standpoint, brutal men begat brutal children. And brutal children survived.
      The bad-boy, brutality angle had a number of aspects. He drove motorcycles and muscle cars. He favored perverse and somewhat violent t- shirts, where appropriate. He hunted. There was usually a hint of leather in his attire at all times.
      Together these factors kept him in constant demand. Which was good, as libido and intelligence are intrinsically linked. It didn't hurt that he put it on women hardcore, sexually. And those women talked to other women about it.
      Best of all, if he tired of one, or had designs on a new one, he simply became too nice. Fawning. Clingy. Inevitably, they would seek a new bad boy.
      It wasn't a foolproof system, but it had served him well so far, and got him through grad school.
      But that was mere sideline. Jean had an entirely different area of expertise, where concerned research and academic life.
      Like most men of greatness, he was obsessed with a subject, almost dangerously so. In Jean's case, it was the authoritarian impulse.
      A renaissance man, his knowledge of history, politics, psychology, and economics drew for him a disturbing picture.
      Ponerology, the study of the psychology of evil, taught him to fear and respect the psychopath. Psychopaths, contrary to popular opinion, were not knife-wielding maniacs. They were businessmen, politicians, priests, bosses, world leaders.
      Four to six percent of men, and one to two percent of women possessed no human emotion whatsoever. This lack of internal constraints had far-reaching implications. Psychopaths are smart. Much smarter than most. This volatile combination enables them to social climb and acquire wealth with relative impunity, unimpeded. So most positions of power were held by psychopaths, globally.
      This, Jean surmised, had led to the development of a psychopathic society, which forced normal people to adopt aspects of psychopathy as survival traits.
      And this concept became part of Jean's internal struggle: was he himself psychopathic? He didn't want to believe this was so. But he also

conceded that a true psychopath could even deceive himself. Perhaps, Jean thought, I pretend to have emotions to fool myself as well as others.
      On a biological level, Jean also knew emotions were, like everything else, survival traits. Howard Bloom had explained it all wonderfully in 'The Lucifer Principle'.
      In essence, Bloom posited, nature was a motherfucker. She would kill a million lemmings if that meant one survived and strengthened the breed as a whole. Or even all of them, if they were too weak to survive.
      Interestingly enough, lemmings (also his all-time favorite video game) were a bad example for Jean to use. They did not, in fact, throw themselves into the sea en masse, as was the popular belief. The famous film footage from the fifties that purported to show this actually depicted Disney filmmakers herding the animals over a cliff in order to make a nature documentary.
      That really underscored Jean's basic belief; man was the most dangerous animal of all. Woman equally so.
      Although depicted as the fairer sex, women could be at least as harsh as men, if not worse, under some circumstances. Women, in almost equal measures, could and would either sacrifice themselves to save their children, or wouldn't hesitate to kill others for the same reason.
      To counter that (nature was delightfully slippery and hard to nail down), women also left newborns in dumpsters, flushed them down toilets, or fed them to dingoes.
      A woman could also cut your cock off or set you on fire while you slept despite the fact that, no matter the back-story, they could simply abandon their abusive situation.
      This led Jean to develop some interesting theories of his own in regard to gender. What if, he thought, men were actually the more sensitive half of the gender duo?
      It certainly seemed that way to him, which is why he never hesitated in manipulating them for sex. But perhaps this was self-serving cynicism on his part.
      This constant onrush of complex thought kept him busy mentally, but it was exhausting. He sometimes wondered if schizophrenia wasn't a simpler answer to his own personal issues.
      But even that realization wasn't a resolution, just a signpost on the road of life. A flashing yellow caution light perhaps.


brew.

These were the thoughts that Jean had as he waited for his coffee to

"J-Breezy. Wake up, bitch."
"Fuck." An interminable pause. "You."
The smell of coffee was all it really took to roust Jim Brown, but

Jean had to fuck with the man when he could.
      Jean emptied the pot into their travel mugs and restarted the brewing process. They were both pretty deep in the depths of the java thing. Coffee, pot and women were their vices, pursuit of knowledge aside.
      He printed their agenda for the week, and his own research references. When they had met as freshmen, sharing the same discipline and basic goals, an alliance had started to develop. Ultimately, they decided to room together, and take the same classes together, where possible.
      It was a good working relationship with a lot of benefits. They could cover for each other in the event one needed to miss a class or a lecture. They compared notes and studied together.
      At certain points, their paths diverged, but overall it worked well. They had even co-authored two papers together, and were working on a bigger, more important one, currently.
      Jean burned his mouth on the coffee, and added two cubes of ice from the full-sized fridge. As grad students, they never had to change dorms, and had slowly upgraded their facilities.
      Underclassmen spoke of them in hushed tones. Their dorm, although the same size as the other rooms, had the quality of a Bugs Bunny tent. Their upgrades, carefully integrated, gave the impression of a much bigger room. The underclassmen called it Geek NASA.
      Jean pulled a sack of doja from his shirt pocket, along with a glass stem and bowl. He then unplugged a lamp and unscrewed the top, removing the shade and light bulb housing. One aspect of Geek NASA they had never revealed to anyone else was the camouflaged five-foot bong. Penalties for possession in Alabama were stiff, and also grounds to be kicked out of school.
      He went to the bathroom they shared with an adjacent dorm, and grabbed a glass of water, a toilet paper tube and a sheet of fabric softener.
      He loaded the dryer sheet into the cardboard tube, poured the water into the five-footer, and packed the bowl, inserting it into a hole near the bottom of the glass lamp.

      Their only design flaw was that it took two people to use it. But Jean had that whipped. He clicked a BBQ lighter with his big toe and held it to the bowl. Yellow-white smoke began to waft upward through the lamp post. When it was almost to his lips, someone tapped on his left shoulder.
As he turned to face Jimbrowski, Jim snuck in from the right and nearly cleared the tube.
"Nice day for a, white widow", he said never exhaling.
"You rat bastard!" Jean said, smiling. "At least relight it for me.
Fuck."
James blew his hit out through the fabric softener tube contraption
to mask the odor and complied. Then Jean had to reload. "Want another draw?" he asked.
J.B. waved his hand. "One-hitter quitter. I'm out." And with that he
exited.
Must be Tuesday, Jean thought. He checked the calendar. Tuesday
and Thursday was when their schedules differed, by design. Otherwise, spending too much time together would have them at each other's throats. They both knew this from experience. They also separated on the weekends.
      Monday, Wednesday, Friday they attended the same classes, tackled homework, and did joint research, no pun intended. Their dissertations were individual works, of course, and they each fiercely guarded their own research and findings.
      Today, Jean had two items on the agenda: coding and lab work. He was part of an online team dedicated to further unraveling the human genome.
      DNA was complex. For more complex than even most geneticists thought. It took two to ten thousand years, depending on your perception of history, for humans to mostly get a grip on the basics of it.
      And they still hadn't really figured out more that a quarter of it. Jean, James, and thousands of other bleeding-edge researchers like them were busy trying to decode the second and supposed third layers of encoding.
      The theory went like this: DNA contained encoded info about our genetic make-up. That was a given, and scientists had started to pinpoint which sections related to genes that determined who we were, height,

weight, longevity, etcetera. But then it got impossibly complex. Like susceptibility to diseases for instance.
      That was J-Bizzle's forte. Jean had other interests, primarily personality and brain development.
      The premise behind second and third layer DNA research was based on an assumed complexity that hadn't been considered until recently. If the d-oxy-ribonucleic acid pattern for an individual began, for example, AGGTACCCTAGCTAGCTCCTCGAATCGGAAGC,    the    linear
arrangement contained known sequences whose purposes have mostly been discovered.
      Second and third layer encoding theory maintained that the sequences were arranged in a way as to contain additional patterns. To simplify, imagine stringing together every fifth protein in the chain to provide additional information.
      The presence of deeper level encoding was surmised, but not yet proven. Like the dark matter of cosmologists, it could only be inferred from available data. There were simply too many attributes to human beings to be contained in a single pass of the data.
      Jean's intent was to fully uncover whatever layer of encoding contained the genes he sought to isolate.
      This was the basis of his doctoral research, and it was what his coding project revolved around. He was writing a code module for an ambitious online genome research program, nicknamed Project Douglas.
      It was named for Douglas Adams, the late, great author of the "Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" series of extremely funny sci-fi. Adams' initials were DNA, and he was born in Cambridge the same year DNA was discovered. Geeks loved Adams, and recursive humor.
      What the software would do when completed would be to utilize massively parallel computing to decipher second and third layer encoding, much in the same way SETI operated.
      SETI was the Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence program. It utilized the computers of tens of thousands of volunteers to scan space radio signals for signs of life. It was very successful as a project, even though it had yet to yield solid results.
      Project Douglas was intended to be much more successful. DNA was a more tangible, close to home subject of study. No one was sure of how many layers of DNA encoding there were, but everyone involved was

confident that the second layer existed, and would begin to reveal its mysteries once this massive computing project was underway.
      They had considered using SETI's source code as a base, but after much heated debated, peppered with references to 'cruft', 'Knuth', 'Joel on Software' and other nerd arcana, the steering committee agreed to start fresh.
      Ordinarily, Jean would handle user interface design, his personal area of expertise when it came to software engineering. This was the aspect of program design that was concerned with a logical frontend, consistency, and ease-of-use.
      The hardcore science faction of the steering committee had decided, summarily, that there would be no front-end. The single command the program accepted would be delivered via a command line interface with the syntax 'douglas *.dna', where the asterisk would be the name of a file containing the DNA sequence to be deciphered.
      Sometimes the Open Source guys were a little too barebones for his tastes, and this was one of those times. He had big plans for front-ending it later, but he didn't have the time to worry about that now. He was writing the parser.
      His module read in the .dna file at program launch, and massaged it, making sense of the data. It was a mission critical portion of the application. A mistake here would cascade throughout the entire program, affecting all of the other modules. Clearly, more weed and coffee were required.
      In the space of a minute, Jean had opened a window, checked air flow, and fired up the battered coffee maker, Ministry's "Land of Rape and Honey", a bomber joint, and GCC, in that order.
      GCC was a no-frills Open Source compiler. It was utilitarian, instead of flashy to the point of annoyance. If you didn't really understand coding well, you'd have no chance of using it.
      Jean understood it well, but he didn't have to like it. Everything was done by hand, via command line switches: linking, compiling, debugging. It was tedious, especially to a visual learner such as himself.
      Still, coding was a joy. Genetics research coding was technical ecstasy. He had most things programmed into macros by now, anyway. It was another detail that made Geek NASA the stuff of legend, with Jean at the epicenter. He could do things with that compiler via a single keystroke that would take others five minutes to accomplish.

      He consulted the design documents while he finished his breakfast, and then didn't come up for air until the dorm landline rang at nearly noon.
"What's crackin?" a voice asked.
      Only one female in Alabama said that, it seemed. She was Maxine Jackson, of the L.A. Jacksons. Distant cousin of O'Shea, he had heard, but never from her. She didn't like to brag.
      Maxine was his current goal on the dating front. She was a five foot two cheerleader, dark brown in complexion, with both the L.A. face and the Oakland booty a certain Sir Mix-a-lot spoke so adoringly of.
      Better still, she was frighteningly intelligent. And she dealt in high- grade pharmaceuticals, psychedelics and exotic marijuanas as a bonus. Maxine for the win.
"Hey, Maxxy. How's it going?" Jean played it cool, as usual. "All good in the hood, baby. You tight?"
      "Yeah, I'm holding out ok, but I have a lot of work coming up, so I need to reup by Friday. Plus I have a few extra items on my shopping list."
"Cool, cool. Is today a good time?"
"Let's try tonight. I have to go do some lab work, first."
      "I'll call at six. Be available," she said. "I have some coding problems I need to pick your big brain about."
"I shall endeavor to allay myself at your disposal, m'lady."
      Maxine giggled. "A-ight. Six it is. In German." And with that she hung up.
      Wow, Jean thought. What a score. She had just tipped the meter. He knew her request for tutoring was pure broken-wing syndrome, all the way.
      Throwing the word 'sex' in, however obscurely... Jean thought he'd have a very good weekend ahead, if a tad less productive on the academic front than he'd hoped. But it was a worthwhile trade-off, to be sure.
      He took a hellacious bong rip, drained the coffee pot, and headed for the biology department. Halfway down in the elevator, he realized he was still in his bedroom slippers. Oh, well. Not for the first time. That was just how he rolled, he mused.
Entering the first floor hallway, he decided to check in with Dr.
Woodard, his mentor and sole ally on the administrative side of things.
      Dr. Woodard had encouraged him, and even shielded him from a few potentially embarrassing incidents involving girls and dope. Out of respect and gratefulness, Jean had slowed his roll. He had the good doctor

to thank for straightening him out. Without Woodard, he'd have probably slipped down the academic food chain to Mississippi or Louisiana by now.
      His door was open. His door was always open. Even when he was in class, Woodard's office was available for students. He operated on an insane honor system that somehow worked. He inspired such a fierce loyalty that his students did any policing, if necessary, and such incidents rarely even got back to him.
      Plus, Jean knew, the old man had an endless array of tricks up his own Merlinesque sleeves. Woe to the student who tried to hack his boxen, whether physically or via the network. They inevitably found themselves cooling their heels, out of school for up to a year.

Chapter 3 - Square Peg
      Paige shut the door to her relatively modest two-bedroom apartment, and leaned with her back against it, breathing a sigh of relief. Home free at last. She enjoyed her work, but it was taxing.
      Her home was her castle. She meditated for a full minute, exhaled fully and went to her bedroom dresser to empty her pockets. There were so many accoutrements in her line of work. And she liked to be prepared.
      She pulled out the sack of herb she'd acquired earlier and examined it thoughtfully. She then unrolled it, plucked the smaller package of rocks out of it, brought them to the bathroom and flushed them. That stuff was a pernicious menace, and was probably responsible for half of the strife in the
U.S. She had no desire to even try it.
      Now settled in for the night, she disrobed fully, leaving her clothes in the hall hamper. She stopped to admire her form in the full-length mirror. Yep, she was still gorgeous, despite gorging on the high-calorie meal earlier.
      Just thinking about lunch brought her hunger back, it seemed. She went to the fridge and pulled out an array of pre-sliced vegetables, cheeses, and meats and set them on the counter. Paige didn't believe in starving herself. She made a mid-sized chef's salad, denying herself only the boiled eggs, and slathered it in low-fat Catalina dressing.
      She sat on her red leather sectional and clicked on CNN. Paige knew that media and politics were bullshit, but she still grappled with information addiction. It made sense, to her, to keep up with the current propaganda. The real news she got from the Net. By staying informed, she had amassed a sizable stock portfolio, slanted heavily toward pharmaceutical and security tech companies.
      Knowledge really was power. In a few short years, she could retire to some place like Montana, Utah, Idaho or Colorado and build a ranch. She intended to supplement her income with private detective work, of course.
      She didn't want to be alone, though. One difficult aspect of being Paige Burner, girl wonder, was how hard it was to find a man worthy of a lifetime of devotion. She thought she had someone, once, but it was when she was young and directionless. He had saved her from a suicide attempt, in fact, but they had grown apart and never married.
      Now she was making herself depressed. She scarfed down the last of her salad, drained her glass of spring water, and put the dishes in the dishwasher after rinsing them. Time to smoke something.

      She got her ill-gotten baggie of Haze from her dresser, and then returned to the couch feeling sentimental. She muted the TV and used the universal remote to turn on The Cure's 'Staring At The Sea' CD. She might as well wallow in sentimentality instead of just getting her feet wet, she figured.
      Ah, the ritual. If pot weren't more or less legal, another factor behind living in California, Paige would have to arrest herself. She loved those sweet, sticky buds. They were her constant companions. Her childhood friends. Thinking about it, Mary Jane was her life partner.
      She pulled the Rubbermaid container out from under her couch. Since she didn't use a maid, unlike most of California it seemed, she had no reason to hide her stash well. Not to mention, everyone from the chief on down knew she smoked regularly. Hell, she'd gotten high with half the force, eventually, and had even broken a few cops' weed cherries. Gotta love that.
      Not everyone could handle it, she found. The effect varied. Sometimes, it seemed to make dumb people dumber, and smart people smarter. Less often, she saw the opposite, as people she had previously considered unintelligent became enlightened and gained a new outlook.
      Personally, Paige considered it an extension of the Divine. Much like Ethiopian Coptics and Jamaican Rastas, she believed it put her closer to God. Being a Gnostic, she didn't often espouse these beliefs to others, but to the right person, she did do her part to spread the word. Paige didn't so much as own a Bible.
      Gnosticism meant man could have a direct and personal relationship with God. Any person, book, or philosophy that came between you and the almighty was a detriment, in her faith. And "God" wasn't some anthropomorphized entity in her mind. It was the life essence of the universe itself. Secretly, Paige considered it akin to "the force" in Star Wars. But most people weren't stoner George Lucas fans in her line of work, so she was pretty private about all that.
      Carl Sagan, she had learned after he had died, smoked pot. In one of his books, he pointed out the superhuman levels of concentration it afforded African Pygmies. Cannabis was the only plant they cultivated, as they were hunter-gatherers by necessity.
      But smoking pot was necessary to their survival. With it, their tribal hunters gained the ability to stand near a stream, spear upraised, stock-still,

for up to three hours. This brought in the fish they needed to survive.
      A book, the title of which escaped her, by another deceased writer gentleman, Terrance McKenna, put forth the notion that psilocybin mushrooms, the only three-isolated indole on the planet, were a form of alien communication. His reasoning was that if you're looking for something alien on this planet, you should seek something entirely unique. Paige extrapolated from that to include THC, the psychoactive element in marijuana. From what she knew about biology there was nothing else like it on the planet, much like herself.
      She popped the top on her container. In it were, at last count, sixteen different strains of pot. Haze, of course. It was the Cadillac of pot currently. Very refined, she found. It was smooth, mellow and relaxing, but at the same time, intense and heavily stony.
      But she also had Kush, Northern Lights, Skunk number one, ex- favorite of her youth, the extremely potent and tasty B.C. Bud from Vancouver, and the Whites. Paige suspected that White Widow and White Rhino were the same strain, but she hadn't done the research herself, so she kept both.
      She had other varieties, being a collector and connoisseur. Columbian, Jamaican, Panamanian. Pot from Thailand, Japan, China. She even had some purple Russian weed. It grew in cold climates and never got very tall, as a result. It was imported here to be grown along tree lines, undetected by planes and helicopters.
      Tonight, to celebrate solving the non-murder of Maureen Bedford, she was rolling a blendo. Paige was sort of old school. Nothing on Earth could make her smoke out of a filthy cigar. She knew all about the radioactivity of tobacco from the fertilizers used to grow it.
      She was really unpopular among the dwindling number of tobacco addicts on the force. She had refused to be around cigarette and cigar smoke. She had even refused to ride in squad cars driven by smokers, even though they didn't smoke with her in the vehicle.
      California law was very conducive to her way of thinking, and she used it to her advantage.
      She placed the flat, unadorned antique saucer from her tray onto the glass coffee table. On it, she placed a pinch of older, properly aged Purple Haze, a pinch of Skunk, a pinch of B.C. Bud and a healthy chunk of psycho-brand White Widow.

      She then got her tongs and scissors and cut it all into near powder. You didn't touch weed like this with your hands, the colas stuck to your fingers, which was messy and wasteful. Silently, she thanked Maureen for the papers, as she had run out again.
      The transparent Job Crystal papers she used were her one concession to modernity. At the last stage of the papermaking process, the clear cellulose was bleached with a toxic dioxin mixture, turning it white and opaque. Job and others abandoned this final step, modified the previous elements of the process, and came up with clear papers that were also healthier for you.
      She rolled a big joint of medium density. Too tight, and it wouldn't burn all the way down, as it became caked with resin. Too loose and it burned too quickly, putting more into the air than into her lungs, where she needed it.
      Quickly, she put her works back under her seat on the couch. She then slipped into the back bedroom for a moment, got her Zippo and Ms. Kitty, and returned.
      She clicked on a DVD, 'The Violation of Sasha Grey', and fired up both the vibrator and the joint. Hello Kitty would never tell. Hello Kitty had no mouth. She had her first orgasm somewhere between 'The Walk' and 'Let's Go To Bed'.
      She had eventually fallen asleep in front of the TV fully spent, and then woke up around one a.m. to turn everything off, straighten up a bit, use the bathroom, and climb into her king-sized bed between satin sheets under her down comforter. Paige kept her apartment a crisp sixty-eight degrees.
      The next thing she knew, it was after ten a.m., and the phone was ringing. The chief knew not to expect her to be on time after she had solved a case. It was part of their arrangement.
"'lo" she mumbled.
"Hello yourself, Sleeping Beauty. Do you ever plan on returning to

work?"


It was the chief. He must have another case for her, already. "Mmmm," she mumbled.
"That's a bunch a goddamned bullshit, McFly. The goddamn Grim

Reaper doesn't sleep and neither should you."
      "Noon," she said, and hung up without waiting for his litany of curses in response. She'd be at the office in an hour, but she liked to play

prima donna and push his buttons. She was, after all, Paige Burner.
      The phone rang again, and she picked it up before the first ring had finished.
"Now, goddamnit!" Click.
      Grumbling at his insolence, she grabbed the remaining stub of her blendo joint, switched on her Krupps, and took a hot shower.
      Ten minutes later, feeling refreshed, she slipped into a tight little coral pink number, grabbed the tools of her trade, an oversized, spill-proof mug of coffee and sped off.
      When she got to his office, the Chief was still pissed, so she sipped her coffee and rolled her eyes at him until he was done with his tirade. Ordinarily, you couldn't get away with rolling your eyes at your stereotypical screaming black police chief, but who was she again?
"So," she paused. "What's the deal?"
      "It's the weirdest bunch of goddamned bullshit I've seen since yesterday," he began. "But it'll be a long time before someone out does lobster lady, I think."
      She nodded her head in silent agreement, and continued to amp up her caffeine level, enjoying the heavy buzz she had. Her mind still danced with thoughts of Robert Smith, Sasha Gray - Super Slut, and the lovely, license happy folks at Sanrio Corporation.
"This cat is named Don Brasso."
      He threw an open folder in front of her. It contained a series of mug shots, and a lengthy arrest and incarceration record.
      "He's primarily a meth cook. We just found him shot to death in his palatial mobile home about twenty minutes before I called you. Something's not right about it, though. Get your ass down there, pronto. Flea is holding it down for you until you get there.
      "Got it. I'm out. Good morning to you, too," she said over her shoulder as she strode off the face the remains of the morning.
      She just happened to have 'Mother's Milk' ripped to her convertible's stereo, and Paige smiled as 'Stone Cold Bush' began to blast. Flea, really officer Philip K. Johnson, had acquired the nickname because he bore a striking resemblance to the slap-funk bassist for The Red Hot Chili Peppers.

      She needed the GPS unit to find the address the chief had scrawled onto the cover of Brasso's folder. Paige was definitely not familiar with the world of California trailer parks, which were cities unto themselves. Even in exclusive Laguna Canyon, one was never more that five miles away, it seemed.
      Due to its relative proximity to wealth, this was a rather nice, gated mobile home estate. The guard, however, raised the barricade and waved her through without stopping or questioning her. Was it her car and appearance, or was security really this lax? It might be a factor, and she knew she'd be interviewing the guard before he left for the day.
      She arrived at the spot to find a solitary officer guarding a cordoned- off lot. She parked across the roadway from it, and hopped out.
"Phil!" she beamed.
      He brightened considerably at the sight of her. Apparently he didn't know she was coming. Flea was one of the good guys, and was a uniformed officer she actually liked and respected.
      When she got close enough, he extended his hand in greeting. Paige grabbed it, pulled him in and planted a quick kiss on his mustached lips.
"Hey, now, Paige" he protested. "I'm a married man." He shot her a
grin.
"I know," she said, "That's why you deserve a little something extra
every now and again." She knew he would never take her up on the implied offer, and probably didn't fully grasp the implication of what she said, but she couldn't help but tease him a bit. His naivet� and devotion to his family really turned her on.
"What's the dilly, Yo-Yo Ma?" she asked.
      "A dead dealer, basically. I'm not sure why the chief called you in, really. Seems pretty cut and dry."
      Philip was pretty much strictly business. She never called him Flea or referred to him that way. Most people didn't know why he was called that, and if you didn't know, it seemed demeaning.
"Well, let's check into it. Want to hang out?" A large smile broke out on his face.
"Sure."
      "You'll never make detective rolling drunks and robbing crack dealers," she teased.
He laughed out loud at this. "I can barely make my mortgage."

      Their eyes met and she empathized. It was tough being honest in this modern world.
"Hold down the fort while I get my gear."
      She returned with her forensics case, her camera, and two sets of clean room attire.
"Get dressed," she said and threw him a bag. He looked at her seriously. "Are you sure?"
      "I'm Paige Burner, kid. I'm always sure." She winked at him, and was touched to see him blush. Flustered, he turned away from her to put on his outfit. When he turned back around, she was dressed as well.
"How do I look?" he asked.
"Great", she said in all earnestness. "Just one little thing."
      She moved forward a few steps and tucked his hair under his cap with her ungloved hand.
      "Now, you're perfect." Her touch was electric, like her kiss. "Let's check it out."
      As she worked, she lectured. She felt Phil Johnson had the potential to make detective someday, and had decided to push him along.
      "Photos are free," she told him. "Take way too many, from every angle. But don't drown in them. Learn the technology, and use good media management techniques and taxonomy to sort and classify them. Make double backups of everything."
"Taxonomy?"
      "Taxonomy is the science of classification and subdivision. Like kingdom, phylum, order, family, class, genus, species." She paused. "I think that's how it goes. The only mnemonic device I remember from school is 'Programmers do not throw sausage pizza away'."
Phil blinked in the sunlight, but said nothing. His face said it all.
      "A mnemonic device is a way to remember a complex list. The pizza thing refers to the seven-layer model of computer networking."
He blinked again.
      "I'm not going to teach you information technology," she said, laughingly. "We've got real-world work to do."
They walked past the police line and approached the residence
proper.
A few feet from the door, she paused, already getting an idea about
what occurred.

"What can you tell me, before we begin?"
"Um, gunshot wound to the chest, I heard. Dope dealer of some sort.
Scumbag. Probably a small cal weapon." He left it at that. "Go on..." she said.
"Um," he floundered.
      "Phil," she began to scold him, "you need to pay more attention. It's safe to say the victim's wounds were fatal, right?"
"Uh, yeah, pretty fatal."
"And what alerted authorities to the crime?"
"As I understand it, the postman saw the door open and put a call
in."
"Hold on, Philip." She raised her hands. "You're in danger of failing
your first detective class." "Wuh?"
      "There are no postmen in trailer parks, generally speaking. The mail boxes are up front, and due to theft, packages are left up front with the guard."
      "I didn't think of that." He looked at her with eyes that pled for understanding, and she took mercy on him.
      "How many gun shots?" She raised a finger, and continued to tick off questions without pausing for any reply.
      "If the nonexistent mailman saw something amiss, why is the door closed? Three, no one heard any gunfire, in this quiet enclave?"
"Hmmm," he pondered.
"Finally" she said, "What the fuck is this?"
      She slowly walked him over to the steps leading up to the trailer, into the relative shade of an Acacia tree. The plastic suits were damned hot.
      Paige motioned down to the shattered bits of watermelon that covered the stoop. Phil felt foolish, but she continued, undaunted and he successfully fought off the urge to say something stupid and remove all doubt.
"What do you know about improvised silencers, Phil?" Realization dawned on him, finally.
      "Yeah!" he enthused, "You can make them out of two-liter bottles, pillows, even"
Paige cut him off, "Even a big piece of fruit."

      Their eyes met again, but the balance had shifted. Phil was in love. Paige had moved on. She never went for married guys, anyway, much less married with children. But P.J. also didn't meet her intelligence requirements. Elitist, perhaps, but also a simple reality. She needed a man, or perhaps even a woman, who was smarter than she was.
      "Ok," she continued, "We have a piece of the puzzle, now." Phil nodded.
      "Let's get some photos and pick this stuff up. I have an ice chest with some chemical cold packs in the trunk. The heat is going to melt and spoil this watermelon. Or I'm going to eat some."
      She smiled, handed him her precious camera, and went to her well- stocked trunk, a veritable rolling crime lab. She returned as Phil appeared to be finishing up.
      Leaving nothing up to chance, she shot eight more pictures, varying the angle from birds-eye view to eye-level, in a 270 degree pattern, The trailer wall prevented good shots from the remaining angles.
      They bagged and labeled the chunks of watermelon, and put them on ice. Paige suspected they would be important down the road. Many detectives wouldn't have realized their significance, or at least right away, much less have saved every scrap.
      "Be a lamb and return this to where it belongs, please." She batted her eyes for good measure, unnecessarily, and popped the trunk with the remote.
      When Phil returned Paige said, "Let's play Jim Morrison and be backdoor men."
"Huh?"
      "Let's use the alternate entry so as to insure we don't obscure or erase evidence critical to our case."
"Oh. Okay."
      She knew there was a back entry. She'd never seen a trailer without one. Probably fire code, she thought. What she hadn't prepared for when they walked around back was a lack of steps leading up to said entryway.
"Alright, rookie, get down on your hands and knees."
      He eyed her dubiously. She scanned the back yard, but it was the sort of clean that can only be achieved through mild mental illness or meth use. Or both, acting in concert.

      "I need to get in there. Now. Unless you have a better idea. C'mon, I'll make it worth your while."
Wordlessly, P.J. got down on the ground in front on the door.
      Paige slipped out of her sensible flats and mounted the young cop's back. Her toes, the balls of her feet, and her heels went to work, massaging away some of the tension she felt there. Phil groaned.
      She produced her lock pick kit and went to work. Roughly thirty-six seconds later she felt the tumbler mechanism give, and opened the door.
      "Don't stop," Phil begged. She centered one foot below his shoulder blades and lightly bounced. She felt and heard his back crack in several places, and he actually moaned in pleasure. As she bounced upward, she stepped into the trailer.
      "Thank you, Mistress," she heard Phil say. He was a little more hip than she thought. At any rate, it was the proper response befitting a Goddess.
      The interior sported the same spartan neatness as the yard. Meth users and crackheads fell into two strict groups: messy and neat. In both cases, they went to extremes.
      Paige only cared about solving the homicide. Narcotics could deal with the rest. But she needed information on probable motives. She set her apprentice to work taking photographs, directing him occasionally and watching him constantly. Before she left, she'd take a complete set on her own.
      "Get a shot of this. Get six shots, varying the distance, and then six shots two feet from the wall, varying the angle." While Phil carried out her instructions, she cruised the trailer, getting a feel for the location.
      He was photographing a bullet lodged in the thin paneling of the back trailer wall. Twenty-two or thirty-eight caliber, max, she surmised. The uniformed guys actually got something right, for a change. She idly wondered how.
      Nothing seemed out of place, and in an anal-retentive meth user environment, disarray would be apparent.
      In the back bedroom, she found what she was looking for. Since it was apparent the shooter (she had ruled out suicide) didn't enter the premises, she was relatively confident that she wouldn't be disturbing any prints. The victim's computer sat idling, awaiting her commands.

      "Get photos of everything else", she shouted from the back. "There are eight blank SD cards in the bag when that one fills up." Even her ten- gig cards filled up fast when you shot at half resolution. She didn't ever use the full six megapixel ability of the camera, but she might, taking panoramas or large outdoor shots.
      Most people, even many photographers, weren't aware that cameras that went beyond six megapixels were a waste of money. Studies showed that they introduced so much noise that picture quality actually began to degrade beyond that point. Until the technology improved, she's stick to what she had.
      Paige sat down at the PC, and the monitor popped on. She needed time to work, so she walked back to check on Phil.
"How's it going?" he asked.
      "Good!" she said brightly. "Look, it's getting late, and I'm worried about a shift change. Will you go and interview the guard?"
"Sure. Of course."
      "Ask about this supposed mailman who came and went. Check and see if there's security video. See if he knew the victim, the guard, I mean. Let's see..."
      She thought about it. "Get a copy of the visitor's log, if there was one. See if he had a girlfriend, and if they know where he worked."
"Got it."
      "Cool. Thanks a lot. I'll be another thirty minutes or so, I believe. But don't rush. Be thorough. If you think of anything else, you have carte blanche. I think you'll have better results than I, since you're in uniform."
"Alright. I'll be back when I'm done," he said.
      With that, Phil jumped out the back door and started toward the front gate on foot.
"Take off the clean suit, first!" she shouted.
      Now she had some breathing room. Time to do some digging. She looked at the apps installed. No Firefox, yuk. She opened Explorer and went to Mozilla.org and grabbed it. While it was downloading and installing, she went to work.
      First she did a few quick file searches: text files first, then pictures, and finally a few system files. Shit, she thought, no WinRar. She needed that app. In a rush she popped in her USB fob and installed that.

      I'm losing it, she thought. She had Firefox on there, too, and had wasted two minutes downloading it needlessly. She copied her profile and plugins over from the USB key, and launched both Firefox and WinRar.
      Her WinRar was paid for and registered. Paige was no software pirate. She had the money, and used her tools often. She even donated to the Mozilla project quarterly. She slept easily at night, knowing that she supported the guys whose programming efforts made her life easier.
      She navigated to gmail.com and opened her account. Then she RARed up the sets of files she'd searched for and emailed them to herself.
      Then she went to Carbonite.com. She had a throwaway account there for these sorts of covert operations, something that couldn't be traced back to her. She installed the client software.
      Carbonite kept mirror backups of your entire hard drive, bit for bit. After the install, she launched it and began the backup process, putting it in the background, and made sure it was set to not relaunch on startup, or put an icon in the tray.
      It was an effort to cover her trail. PC forensics would get the machine when the normal investigators took over.
      On a whim, she opened a command line and typed in a few program names from memory. When she typed 'starcmd', a familiar interface window popped up. Jackpot.
      It was a common key logger, an app that recorded everything typed on a PC: which apps were launched, what sites were visited, etcetera. She checked a few settings to make sure the log file wasn't encrypted and wouldn't be deleted on exit. No need to screw over her own team. Maybe they'd find something she missed.
      She emailed herself the log file and closed he app. The presence of that particular program indicated either paranoia, jealousy, or both. And when you got down to it, jealousy really was a form of paranoia, anyway.
      She navigated the user menu to the administrative settings, and looked under user accounts. First, she noted that she was currently using the administrator account. It was sloppy work on the victim's part. A bad security practice, but it was to her advantage. At the same time, she saw that there was another account on this machine, under the name Angel.
      Another jackpot. Probably a girlfriend or ex-wife. Possibly a daughter. Not a live-in, Paige thought. There was no woman's touch evident

in this particular den of inequity. And, just maybe, Angel was the shooter. It was not a discountable possibility.
      The keylogger would reveal all, she mused. There was a chance the PC was 'pwned', under the control of a hacker, but she suspected the PC's owners had installed it for his own reasons.
      Now she had to slow down the PC forensics guys, who weren't always that thorough anyway. They were too busy with child porn, which was a messy job. They fought it, and viewed it. She tried not to dwell on that.
      She changed the administrator password to 'flower' and exited the accounts application. This way, the guys couldn't just waltz in, shut the PC down and take it to the lab. She needed time to solve the case. Paige played to win.
      By using a common word, they could brute force crack it, but Paige knew there were much quicker and better methods they could and probably would use. Still she'd have a day or two's lead on them. Plenty of time to solve the case before they even got started on it.
      Finally, she uninstalled the apps, deleted her settings, and edited all trace of herself from the keylogger's log file. Not a perfect cover up, but enough to fool PC forensics, she felt.
Just in time, Phil returned.
"Hey!" He called from outside, "I've got some good stuff. Are you
done?"
"Yeah", she said, walking over to the back door. "But call your wife.
You're taking me to a late lunch."

Chapter 4 - Fascist Gene
      "Ah, Mr. Simons! Good to see you. What's on your mind?" He motioned for Jean to sit down.
      He debated the offer and then sat. A palaver with the prof could eat up an hour, easily. "Just passing through, and I thought I'd say hello."
      "How goes the research? At last glance..." He pulled up Jean's current semester transcripts.
"...you seem to be in good standing."
      The mid-term grades had been posted the day before. Professor Woodard, at nearly seventy years old, didn't miss a trick.
"Classes are great," Jean said. "It's the thesis I'm struggling with." "Morally, physically, or intellectually?" Dr. Woodard intoned that
perhaps it was the last one. And he was mostly correct. Truthfully, it was a little of each. But it was a daunting intellectual exercise, most of all. Then again, this was his doctorate degree they were discussing.
      "Mostly the latter, of course. But I'm also fairly frazzled and stressed. And, even worse, I'm starting to have questions about the morality of my research."
      Jeans operating theory was that personality defects could be isolated and eliminated, much like diseases. That included ailments such as schizophrenia, psychosis and phobias.
      More to the point, Jean sought to eradicate the authoritarian impulse, the belief that one individual should be able to control another.
      Jean believed that this trait lead to Hitlers, Stalins, Maos and the like. Billions of human lives had been wasted as a result of this personality trait, which he felt was at the root of psychopathy.
      He even had a catchy name for it: The Fascist Gene. He could imagine it being referred to as such in articles about himself in Time and Newsweek.
      Eliminate he fascist gene, he surmised, and you eliminate totalitarianism. His general research focused on detecting the gene sequence that determined susceptibility to mental illness. His own pet project was his anti-authoritarian premise.
      "It's good you have doubts. That means you're human. Most good researchers hit this stage, eventually. If they don't, they're either amoral, or their research isn't all that important. Einstein had doubts. So did Salk. We know this because they wrote about it."

"I tend to think Einstein's work led to some bad shit," Jean said. "Oh, it definitely did. So did Salk's for that matter. So," he said,
igniting his ivory pipe in defiance of the university tobacco policy, "will yours."
      He looked Jean squarely in the eyes and exhaled slowly for theatrical effect.
      "All significant research has negative implications. It's the nature of the beast, my boy. Science is a dual-edged sword. You know this."
Jean nodded.
      "Consider the Internet itself. A DARPA project, fully. It was entirely owned by the military, from start to finish. That means it was designed to be insecure, openly-readable and trackable, for the right people."
      "I never thought about it much," Jean said. "To me, the net started with Tim Berners-Lee."
      Dr. Woodard sighed and re-lit. "Some people's kids," he said, rolling his eyes.
      "When the Internet went commercial, things got much worse. AOL is a Company operation. Give people free or cheap access with the perception of being anonymous, and watch them dig their own graves. The other side of the sword?"
"Freedom of information," Jean answered.
      "Exactly. For all of the Machiavellian machinations, the internet has done more good than harm. The propaganda is still slanted in favor of freedom-loving people with brains and morals. Sure, it can be a cesspool, and it's the new cable TV and electronic babysitter. But the net effect, pun intended, is a positive one."
      "And just to drive my point home," the professor continued, "even the most seemingly benign research can have negative implications. AR researcher Jaron Lanier crippled internet two, once, from the sheer volume of bandwidth he required for a demo."
"Damn," Jean exclaimed. It was hard to imagine.
      "So, I'd say keep an eye on the impact your research may have, intended or otherwise. But don't let it hold you back. If Einstein hadn't done the work, maybe the Germans or Japanese would have done it first."
      He gazed thoughtfully at Jean for a moment, "What, specifically are you struggling with?"

      "Morally, we've covered that. My concern is the long-term impact my work could have. The Nazis, to go Godwin for a moment, worked hard to eliminate the handicapped, both mental and physical. Given time, I've no doubt they have tried to eliminate schizophrenics, the autistic, Asberger's sufferers, etcetera. People that we now know are capable of great contributions to society."
Dr. Woodard stopped him to interject. "There's a little Nazi in you, it seems."
Jean  looked  both  stunned  and  puzzled.  But  he  didn't  object.
Woodard always had a bigger point to make.
      "What you're suggesting is that non-contributors to society are less deserving of life than yourself. A Nazi concept, basically."
      "Noted. But what I meant and felt was in opposition to that." Jean replied.
      "Oh, I know that, fully, Mr. Simons. I was really pointing out that there's a little of that in all of us. No matter how we fight to deny or suppress it. Or intellectualize it away."
      The professor emptied his pipe. "Bottom line, others will use your research for good and evil. What matters is what you yourself do with it."
"What else?" Woodard asked.
      "Well, it now seems to pale in significance, but it doesn't seem like this software project will be done before my thesis is due."
"Jean, a good software project is never done."
Jean's cheeks flushed with colors. He was embarrassed, "Gotcha." "Such is the way of committee work, Jean. And since that project is
basically beyond the scope of a single person, you're stuck." "I know. Hence my difficulty."
      "The solution is to tighten the focus of your paper. It has to either stand alone, and not depend on the outcome of the software project, or incorporate the software as a subset, and leave the actual results inconclusive."
"What do you suggest?"
"Either approach is valid. There may be other ways to handle it" Jean stood to go.
"Good talk?" Dr. Woodard asked.
"Good talk," Jean said, slightly unsettled.
"One more item remains unaddressed, Jean," he added.

"What's that?"
      "If you spent less time banging co-eds, you'd have more energy for school."
      Jean thought of Maxine's taunt body and ample curves and blushed again, grinning. Woodard sometimes knew when Jean was going to get laid before Jean did, and he could cite specific examples.
"Of course, that just might be an old man's envy talking," he said "No, you have a point. Extracurricular activities also cut both ways.
They keep me sane and motivated, but they also drain and distract." "Yeah. I was you, once." It was Woodard's turn to grin. "Good talk, professor."
"Good talk, Jean."
      With that, he exited, and headed for the elevator. The research lab awaited.
      If Jean's dorm room was Geek NASA, the genetics research lab was heaven. There was an electron microscope, boundless supplies and research materials. A supercomputer with time-shared accounts. A hodge-podge, fiber-backed network of Suns, Intergraphs, SGIs, even an Amiga 4000. Best of all, to Jean, was the many subscription-based research networks the lab provided access to. It was definitely cool to be a grad student.
      Jean drained his mug for the third time, fired up another pot on the proscribed, illicit lab coffee maker, and logged on to his account.
      A researcher had to stay current. He loaded Firefox, and sixteen different research databases began to auto-log on. It took all of eight seconds. He loved fiber.
      First, he perused Lexis-Nexus. He found a minor article in Scientific American, which he dismissed as pop drek along the lines of National Geographic's dumbed-down science for the masses.
      Still, he was obliged to read it, and so he did. As he already knew, it taught him nothing, or even alluded to his field of study.
      Google and Yahoo were even worse, of course. He had often considered dropping them from his daily routine, but ego kept him from doing so. He wanted that sort of fame and recognition, so he kept an eye on developments in the world of mass media.
      On his fourth research database archive, he found something extremely interesting. It was a fairly significant work from a promising University of Alabama upstart by the name of James Brown.

      Jean had to pause. Jimbrowski certainly didn't tell him he was publishing, or had even presented him a paper for peer review. It was a slap in the face, and Jean was incensed.
      Their working agreement was to share all research not directly cited in their doctoral thesis papers.
He struggled against and eventually overcame his impulse to hunt
J.B. down and confront him immediately.
      Instead, he continued his daily survey of the state of the art. He bookmarked two more items of minor interest, and then briefly checked his university email account, as well as his Hotmail, Yahoo, and Google accounts.
      Jean collected email addresses like pockets collected lint. There really wasn't much there, a minor notice to grad students regarding the thesis deadline, which was actually moved a week back in his favor.
      His other accounts were used to talk to friends, family and other researchers.
      At last he checked his crucial account, his Hello Kitty Mail account. Jean had a serious streak of joker in him. He used this account strictly for communicating with the Douglas listserv, and individuals concerned with the project.
      He checked it at least three times a day, and usually more often than that. Some of the traffic was concerned with administrative minutia, and some with academic research. All of it was important, and chatter was strictly disallowed.
      There were two items there that directly affected him. The good news was that the deadline for the first make, the initial attempt to assemble the component functions into a compilable piece of unified code, was moved forward by two weeks.
      Many on the list were aghast. Jean considered them undedicated slackers. They probably hadn't written the first
line of code, yet. Jean had a solid, commented outline, and really felt he had about an eighth of his module written. The easy parts, to be sure, but he had gotten started.
More importantly to his ego and wounded sense of pride, not to mention his life's work, were numerous congratulatory messages to big Jim Brown regarding his first solo publication.

Prior to this, they'd released co-authored papers, and shared all secondary research and sources. This was a major turning point in their relationships both personal and professional. Quite possibly a dead end.
He fumed, but resisted the urge to reply, either positively or negatively. When dealing with communication and bad feelings, it was always best to wait a day or three before replying.
With electronic communication, that was much more important. On the phone, face to face, it was a two-way street. Via an electronic conduit, the nuances of emotive expression were lost, essentially, and wildly open to misinterpretation. This was true of both chat and email.
      Furthermore, people had a tendency to unload rants and opinions in email that they never would have permitted themselves to express in person. This, he knew from experience.
      Fate, being what it is, James Brown chose this very moment to walk into the lab, whistling a jaunty tune.
      Jean knew who it was without turning around. "Mother-FUCK-er!" he said.
      J.B. stopped dead in his tracks, frozen in mid-step. He certainly didn't anticipate this reaction. "Jean, is something wrong?"
      "I think you know exactly what's wrong. Why'd you cut me out the loop? After all we've done together and been through?"
      James looked at Jean and saw genuine pain in his eyes. He might have expected some minor negative reaction, at best, but certainly nothing of this magnitude.
      "Damn, Jean. I thought you'd be happy for me. My first solo flight." Although they were both grad students, J.B. was a year younger, mainly due to Jean changing his major early on from computer science to biology.
"Then why in the HELL would you sneak around on me?"
      "You make it sound like I'm your girlfriend." James knew Jean was between women, so it was an intentional dig.
"Have you ever published without telling me?" "No." James had to admit.
      "Haven't you always been my primary source for peer review, and informal critiques?"
"Yeah, but..."
      "But what? It's an affront, from one colleague to another. That's my opinion on the matter. I'm willing to listen to your side, however."


this."

"First of all, I'm sorry. That's number one. I didn't consider all of

"I see that," Jean said tersely.
"Actually, optimist that I am, I thought you'd be impressed that I

wasn't' riding on your coattails. That I actually got published on my own." He paused. "I do owe it all to you, you know."
Jean was disarmed with this.
      James continued. "You taught me the ropes. Erm, showed me the game?" He was flustered, and mixing metaphors. Jean smelled weakness.
"Regardless, James. We had an agreement." "I understand, and I was getting to that." "Then get to it."
"Did you actually read the fucking thing?" James asked. He rarely

cursed.


"Not yet. Just the abstract."
"It's entirely unrelated to your research." "Debatable. We both study genetics."
"Read the paper. Finally, it's a subset of my thesis. Our arrangement

regarding our PhD projects supersedes our research sharing. Right?"
      Jean pondered this. "Why, if you were publishing it for the world, would you keep it a secret?"
      Now it was time for James to soul search. "I guess I got tired of being in your shadow," he said, simply and honestly, after lengthy consideration of the query.
      "I'm really going to have to think about this. I've pretty much shared all of my research with you, thesis or not."
James noted the use of the qualifier "pretty much".
      "Think about it all you want. I do hope this doesn't change things between us."
"It might." With that, Jean left, abandoning his scheduled lab work.
      He went to a payphone. Jean, as a scientist, shunned cell phones like he shunned cigarettes. There was no such thing as a safe dose of radiation, and he took in enough millirads of varying frequencies and types as it was.
Maxxy's was the only phone number he had committed to memory. "Speak on it, player." It was her voice mail.
      "Hey, Maxine. I shot out early, and was hoping to get at you before six. I'll be at my usual place and number. Peace."

      He headed toward the dorms. When he was out of earshot, the pay phone rang. And when he got to the dorm, there was a message on his machine. He didn't bother listening to it. His dorm phone rang.
      "Hey!" Maxine said. "What's going on? You're usually on a schedule."
      "I got thrown a curve. Want to have dinner and talk shop?" This was the first time he had ever tried to breech the dealer-client relationship, and he was actually apprehensive about it. Whether it was because she was his connection, or that he actually had feelings for her somehow, he wasn't sure. Maybe he needed a friend right now.
"I think you read my mind, white boy."
      Jean breathed a silent sigh of relief. There was something about Maxxy. "Do you like Thai food?" he asked.
"I have no idea. Let's find out together." Jean gave her an address.
"Give me at least two hours," she said. "No problem. See you then."
"Byeee," she said coyly.
      He hung up, smiling. His personal life was looking up, at least. Time to primp, for a change.
      A shit, shower and shave later, he still had an hour to kill, even factoring in travel time. He decided to not arrive smoked out, for once. Maxine got high, of course, but not during business hours. He'd let her set the tone.
      He launched Emacs and GCC and noodled around for a while, but his heart and mind were elsewhere. He did reconsider his overall architecture a bit, ultimately, but this wasn't the project for artful experimentation.
      He checked his minor code changes, mainly formatting and comments, truth be told, into the revision control system they used online and left early.
      Much to his surprise and delight, Maxine's car was already there. He went in and spied her over the hostess' shoulder. She greeted him, and he said, "I'm over there," handing her a Visa card.
      The restaurant was his secret. It was far enough away from campus that he almost never saw college students there.

      "Jean!" She rose to greet him, and they embraced, briefly. He seated her, and then sat across from her.
"How's every little thing?" he asked.
      "Business? Great. School? Decent. My personal life is a mess," Maxine answered honestly.
"Let's deal with school first," he smiled. She returned it radiantly.
      "Well," she said. "It's like this. I code pretty damn well. But I'm largely self-taught. Worse yet, I cut my teeth on BASIC."
Jean feigned shock in a comic gesture.
      "I know. My secret shame. First Qbasic then VB. And you know what they say, it takes a month to learn..."
"...and ten years to unlearn," Jean finished. She beamed at this.
      "So third year coding is getting to me. OO, specifically. My approach has always been utilitarian, with my structure varying with the demands of the project."
      "That's not really a bad thing." Jean began. "It just means you're an unconventional programmer. At least your code has structure. I've seen it, remember?"
      Did she blush? It was dark, and so was she. But reading code was intimate, like reading the writings of another. It was a glimpse into the mind of someone else.
"I've always thought you wrote beautiful code." "Oh, stop," she said.
      "No, it's true." Woodard says the best parts of my programs are the comments. I take a brute force approach generally, caveman coding. Structured, but graceless, often enough. Probably a result of writing under a deadline. I don't generally code for fun."
"See, I like to program. It's like, I don't know. Poetry or something.
I just prefer free verse to sonnets."
      "Structure really comes into play more in bigger programs. Or when coding in a team situation."
      "What's fucking with my head are your standard OO traps." He loved how she pronounced object-oriented as 'ooh'.
      "I'm good with functions. I really like functions, actually. They beat subroutines all to hell."

      "For sure," Jean had never really coded in any version of BASIC, and he found it vaguely unsettling. It was a wilderness, full of potential bugs that were hard to trace.
      "Pointer math? Tricky, complicated, but I got that," she said, with a deserved pride in her voice. Pointer manipulation is what usually separated the programmers from the IT people. People often hit that wall and changed majors, sliding a notch down the geek food chain.
"Polymorphism? That's some bullshit," she declared. The waitress arrived to take their orders.
"What's good, Papi?" Maxxy asked.
      Jean rattled off a string on gibberish and the waitress spun around and left.
"Damn. Did you just curse her out or something?" "Wait for it," was his reply.
      The waitress came back with two glasses, a decanter with the Thai equivalent of sake, and two bowls of a spicy fish soup.
"Wow," Maxine said. "I am impressed. And I don't impress easily." "Oh, I'm full of surprises," he said, immodestly.
"I bet," was her reply.
      To her near dismay, Jean and the waitress didn't exchange another word all night, but the food kept coming.
      They discussed the vagaries of object-oriented programming for a while, until Maxxy indicated she'd absorbed enough for one night and shifted gears.
      Jean sensed his opportunity. "Now, about that personal life..." He'd talked enough about coding with her to understand her desire for help was sincere. Not a broken wing in sight. It brought a feeling of relief, somehow. She really was different.
She glanced around briefly.
Jean sensed her concern. "They don't speak enough English here."
      A look of relief crossed her face. He loved the look of serenity it left in its wake.
"Ever dealt any dope?" she asked bluntly.
Jean indicated that he had not. It always struck him as needlessly
risky.
"It's lonelier than being the Maytag repair man."

      It was almost shocking to hear, for Jean. He knew she was in constant demand by all sorts of interesting people of varying backgrounds.
"I did not know that," he said in his best Johnny Carson voice.
      "Ask almost any dealer. People are in and out all the time. They want that powder. Or that hyde. Or that 'E'. Etcetera. They don't come to see me. Or," she added, "to ask me to dinner."
He was touched.
      "Worse yet, if they're not at me for dope, it's the dual-standard of pussy and money."
"I can imagine," he said in all seriousness.
      "Females, too," she added. "It's like this nerd rapper chick I dig. She says "Girls try to sex me at the club, boys try to mack with all their might". I fully relate to that simple line. It is a summation of my existence, currently."
He studied her.
"I'm getting out of the game," she announced. This was an unexpected twist, to be sure.
      She continued. "My car is paid for. I have some bank. School is paid for. And I have no record. I've been careful. And lucky."
      "I can understand the reasoning. However," He sipped some of the spiced wine, "where does that leave me, your best customer?"
      "Oh, don't flatter yourself," she laughed. "I have clients on a whole 'nother level. They fully outclass you in terms of volume." It was her turn to take a well-timed drink.
      "But...you're my favorite." She winked. "I still use. I have my connections. I've got you covered, in other words."
      "I am flattered. Consider me deeply indebted to you for that. I don't think I could finish school without you."
      He looked at her meaningfully. And she picked up on the deeper meaning held in those words.
      "I think I'm starting to feel the same way," she replied. "In fact, you've helped me decide to get out, tonight. I wasn't sure, before. But I have a hard-coded rule about dating clients."
Jean felt something rapidly approaching genuine affection. "Know what?" he asked.
"What?"

      "I really can relate. I don't think women want me, as such. They want a tutor. Or a mentor. Or a bad boy. Or a genius. None of them, ultimately, seem to want a Jean Simons."
"Well, I definitely do."
He was soaring. She took his hand. "Where do we go from here?" he croaked.
      "I'm going home. You got me so damn full I'm falling asleep. What did you tell that waitress anyway?"
"I said 'Bring us seven of your most romantic dishes'."
      "Smooth." She wiped the corners of her mouth with a nearly theatrical flourish.
      "Write down what you need, and I'll come and pass through in a day or two. Is that cool?"
"Of course. I can't wait." "Neither can I, shug."

Chapter 5 - Square Peg, Part Two
      P.J. followed Paige up the road to a local, non-chain steakhouse. They both exited their vehicles with a handful of notebooks, paperwork, and writing implements. Paige, in addition to these analog writing tools, brought along her Alianware laptop, all green shiny metal and blinking lights. It gave the impression of costing as much as a car, and actually did go for as much as some used cars.
      The restaurant, Flaming Moes, had wi-fi. As they waited on a hostess and table, P.J. related a brief story to her.
      "Several years ago, when I was an Internet virgin, we were cruising around my hometown, Mobile."
Paige interrupted. "You're from Alabama?" she asked. "Sure," he said. "I thought everyone knew that."
"No, not everyone. You don't have any accent at all."
      "I also have all my teeth, and I never did my sister, even once. A few cousins, maybe..."
Paige laughed out loud.
      A pert young sorority-type with coal-black hair motioned them over to the corner booth. Perfect.
      Peej continued. "Alabama, like much of the south, is brimming with stereotypes, to be sure. But not all of us are like that. I guess people like me eventually leave."
      "I'm glad you did." Paige thought for a moment. "I think you're the first Alabama native I've ever met."
      "Good. First impressions are everything. So, we were cruising around, like kids do. I had just gotten a license, so I had to be sixteen."
"Wow. Really?"
      "Sure. Some kids in the south drive at fifteen. And, maybe we had drank a beer or two," he said sheepishly. "And we saw a sign at this local coffee shop, 'Free wi-fi'. So we stopped."
Paige smiled.
      "We both hopped down and went inside. The place sold coffee, but mainly doughnuts, cookies, popcorn, stuff like that. I told the counterman, 'Give us two bags of that weefy."
Paige began to giggle uncontrollably.
      "He looked at us with disbelief, and said, 'It's pronounced why- fie'." I said, "Well if's free, ain't it? 'Yep', he said. Then give us each a bag

of it."
At this point, Paige was practically doubled over with laughter, but
Philip couldn't stop.
      "The guy ducked down under the counter and came up with two inflated white paper bags and handed one to each of us, and we looked inside. They were empty. 'Wi-fi is a wireless computer connection, you damn fool kids.'"
We were so embarrassed, we never showed our faces there again.
And to this day, I don't have weefy."
      Paige was banging on the table and gasping for breath. "Stop!" she managed to get out.
      P.J. was smiling broadly. "That's one story I never told around the station. It sort of confirms what everyone thinks about Alabama."
When she had recovered, Paige said, "Well, I think it's cute."
      The waitress, a bleached-blonde replica of the hostess, walked over, pad in hand. "Hi, I'm Cyn," she said, "What can I get for you two?"
Paige had to glance at her nametag, half expecting it to read 'Sin'.
She wouldn't have been surprised. It said "Cynthia."
      Paige spoke first. This wasn't a date, and she wasn't going to let P.J. think it was. "Cyn, do you know what medium rare means?"
"Sure." She was almost but not quite insulted.
      "Please bring me a Heineken Light, stuffed mushrooms as an appetizer, and a shrimp fettuccini Alfredo. Tell the cook if he scalds the sauce and it separates, I'll send it back."
"Ok." The server turned to get P.J.'s order.
"Hold on," Paige said. "Then I want a twenty-one ounce prime rib.
Make sure it's medium-rare. Not medium. Not rare."
"Yes, ma'am." Any trace of condescension was gone from her voice. After Philip had ordered a rare Porterhouse, fries and an Amber
Bock, Cyn left silently.
"No salad?" he asked in jest.
      "I eat enough rabbit food at home. I'll probably take half of this with me when I go."
P.J. nodded.
      "But I don't eat out much. Eating out alone brings out the sharks," she said without further embellishment.

      She opened her machine, and more L.E.D.s sprang to life. "Ok, what do you have for me?"
      She launched Vi, a free and powerful text editor, and rapidly began typing ahead of Philip's response. While he fumbled with his notes, she found the SSID and acquired a signal.
"Ninety-four percent. Nice," she said, and launched Firefox.
      "Well, oh, let's see," Philip began. "The guard said the guy was in and out at odd hours. He knows this much because he sometimes works double shifts."
"Sounds like a typical meth user, so far. The vic, not the guard."
      P.J. laughed at this. Many meth heads were workaholics, they both knew. When they weren't working, they were cleaning, fixing things, or hustling, depending on their financial situation.
      Oftentimes, narcotics would spot someone simply because their lights were on all night, every night. Or they would be observed cutting their lawn or washing their car at three a.m. When Paige was a uniformed officer, she had once busted a fairly big meth dealer based primarily on his smell.
      The dealer, Jack Harris, ran Mexican superlab crystal from New Mexico to southern California via a network of bikers. He basically had meth coming out of his pores.
P.J. continued. "There's no video taken at the gate, I'm afraid."
      The waitress came back with two salads, water and rolls, "I forgot to ask about dressing," she said.
Phil and Paige laughed simultaneously. "Sorry," Paige said. "Do you have Catalina?"
      Cyn sped off to retrieve it and returned before they had resumed their conversation.
      Phil applied a moderate amount, and then watched goggle-eyed, as Paige appeared to dump most of the remaining bottle of dressing on her salad.
"So much for no salad," she said.
"Do you do everything with such gusto?" he asked, non-innocently.
      She looked at him directly. "Everything," was her reply. Phil's eyes dropped to his notes at that.
      "Let's see...they do keep a record of plates, dates and times, at least, and the lot they're visiting."

"That helps," Paige observed.
      "But the guard says no one ever visited. He thought the guy worked at home or something, because he was at home most weekdays and nights. Disappeared same weekends, though."
"Fits the profile of a cook, I'd say," she said.
      Paige continued to take notes, typing what had to be four times the information P.J. was giving her.
      She opened her mail account and retrieved the log file she'd gotten from the spyware app.
"No mention of a girlfriend, wife, anything like that?" "Nope. I specifically asked. Always alone, the guy said."
      Paige shot an email to the assistant D.A. in order to get the security logs from the last month subpoenaed from the trailer park.
      "That's basically it, really. I have the home numbers to the park manager, and the other two guards."
Paige was lost in thought, when her shrimp and the steaks arrived.
Cyn deposited the plates and then held back, awaiting Paige's approval.
      The sauce hadn't separated in the fettuccini dish and the steak really was medium rare.
"Anything else?" she asked. "Cynthia, this is perfect. Thank you."
      The waitress left, relieved. She had experience dealing with women like Paige before, and was glad the kitchen hadn't botched her rather explicit admonitions to follow this order strictly.
      Paige shut her laptop in order to eat. At seventeen inches, the screen dominated the tabletop. Plus, she had once dated a guy who read books and newspapers during dinner, and she'd found it insufferably rude.
      Dinner conversation was light, practically Spartan. They'd both worked up hearty appetites in the adrenaline rush of the day's detective work.
      When the server observed that they were done eating, she arrived with a go-box to ask about dessert, only to find all of the food was gone. They ordered coffee and cheesecake, mainly so they could continue to work.
"What do you think?" Phil asked.
"It's a start," Paige said. "Nothing jumps out at me just yet." "It doesn't help that guy was practically a recluse, eh?"

"No. It sure doesn't."
      Paige declined to reopen her PC, and instead spent her remaining time talking to Phil about various subjects of mutual interest.
      When the brought the bill, Paige insisted on splitting it. She knew what they each made, salary-wise, and couldn't take food out of the mouths of his wife and child. Nor could she emasculate him by insisting to pay for the entire meal.
      P.J. left a ten-dollar bill as a tip, and as they left, unobserved by him, Paige left another twenty.
      "Well, I guess this is good-bye," P.J. said in mock earnestness. But it was wistful, all the same.
      Thanks for everything, Philip. I had a great time. And I'm going to put in a good word for you with the chief. Do you think you might someday want to do detective work?"
"Are you kidding?"
      "I rarely do. Do yourself a favor and take a few college courses. Try criminal justice, photography, and information technology, for starters."
"I've really been planning on going back to school anyway," he

said.


"Good. One more thing, Mr. Johnson." "What's that?"
"You're probably going to want to get that weefy, eventually." With that, Paige planted a good-bye kiss on his cheek and departed. Phil remained rooted to the spot until she was out of sight.
As much as she wanted to rush home and begin the real work on the

case, she knew she had to visit the gym. Otherwise, she'd be focused on this murder to the exclusion of everything else.
      On the way over she took a few pulls from her one-hitter. Smoking pot and then working out always brought to mind Kevin Spacey in 'American Beauty'. Spacey was her type, she thought. Then again, so were the three women in the film.
      She was more than a little horny after her day with Philip, and the gym didn't help that situation. Co-ed, it was full of SoCal hard bodies, male and female. It was a veritable smorgasbord of simmering sensuality, a celebration of physicality.
      But the trouble with southern California was that people seemed to focus on developing their bodies and then forgot how to use them. People

seemed to be either porn stars, the minority, or eunuchs and neuters.
      People north of Bakersfield weren't quite so picture-perfect, oftentimes, but they knew how to fuck. She'd take some absent-minded NoCal stoner over the L.A. supermodel variety any day. Paige eschewed window dressing and superficiality.
      She spent an inordinate time in the gym's shower stall after her workout, soaping and resoaping her needful body. She entertained fantasies of a hot encounter at the gym with a faceless stranger. Or strangers.
      When she caught herself directing the stream of water at her nipples, and bending over to let the water pummel her clit and ass from behind, Paige knew it was time to leave. Ms. Kitty awaited. Maybe Ms. Kitty belonged in her purse instead of her underwear drawer, she thought.
Driving home, she dialed the chief.
      "Hey, goddamnit, what's going on, Burner?" He was his usual cheerful self.
"I'm going to work at home tomorrow. What did the team uncover?" "Not  a  hell  of  a  goddamned  lot.  Just  the  usual  bunch  of
goddammned bullshit. It took forensics eight hours to shut the PC down." Paige smiled at this.
      "So they're looking at it. But I think it's on you. I don't exactly have high hopes for those butter-soft nerdy cocksuckers." The chief rarely minced words.
      "I'm on it, boss. I'll call when I have something. Until then, I'll mostly be working at home on the computer angle and
following up on the leads that come out of that." "Good, goddamnit."
Click.
      He was the best boss Paige had ever had. But she couldn't work tonight, the way she was feeling. Having eaten, exercised and showered she had one thing on her mind. Well, two things actually.
      She flipped the CD changer to Pink Floyd's 'The Wall' and began her smoking ritual. When she had two medium-sized joints rolled, she lit one and went to get Ms Kitty.
      She didn't even get undressed for the first orgasm, or bother to put on the T.V. Her head was aswim with roses, Kevin Spacey, waitresses, cops, and sweaty people in exercise gear.

      She lit the second joint off the first one, and turned on "Ghetto Gaggers" a particularly filthy series of extreme interracial deep-throating. Paige lost track, but she probably went to bed after four or five orgasms.
      The next morning she awoke refreshed, if a tad lonely. As she aged, she wondered if she shouldn't lower her standards. But Paige found the concept distasteful, if not altogether impossible.
      Her one concession to work the previous night was to connect her laptop to the network cable she left plugged into her router. Wireless was never very secure, and was much slower than a wired network.
      She had launched the Carbonite client and started to download the hard drive image she had lifted from the victim's PC the day before.
      But now she wasn't sure what to do with it. It was a monolithic file in a propriety format. She had considered mounting it on an external hard drive that she'd been meaning to buy, anyway, but she didn't want to go shopping. She was in action mode.
      She dialed Bryce, a digital gangster in Seattle, whom she knew from IRC. They'd chatted voice from time to time, mainly when she'd needed the brain of someone more adept than she at hackery things.
      Bryce was a grey-hat. He was neither good guy nor bad guy, strictly speaking, but he definitely operated in the shadowy underside of the net. Spamming was probably his most serious crime, and Paige didn't agree with anti-spamming laws, anyway.
      He mainly ran porn sites and Google AdSense hustles, and pulled down twice Paige's annual salary. He seemed to have boundless free time at his disposal.
Paige knew that at seven a.m., he hadn't gone to bed yet. "Hey, Paige," he answered. "How are you?'
"I'm great," she said. "How's work?"
"Pretty much on autopilot. I'm bored. I make music now." "Cool," she said. "Send me some."
      Eighteen seconds later, she had accepted transfer of a huge archive of mp3 files.
"Thanks a lot. I'll listen to them today while I work." "So, what's on your mind?" he asked.
      "Well, I sort of boosted this hard drive image via Carbonite yesterday, and I need to view it. I just don't have a spare partition to put on it."

      "Well, you really should keep an external housing with a hot swappable drive in it, and a few spares. That's how we do it, out here. If the feds come crashing in, you throw that shit in the ocean."
He had no idea she was a law enforcement officer.
"I hear you. But I want to read it now. It's kind of hot stuff." "CC info?" he asked.
"I refuse to answer of the grounds that it might incriminate me." Bryce laughed. "Ok," he said. "Two things. There's some project on
SourceForge to make the image readable, but I think-" Paige heard a flurry of key presses.
      "-yeah, it's not done, unstable and doesn't work, fully. The Carbonite people pollute the image with propriety protection crap, a lot of it."
      He sniffed, and Paige could hear the disdain. Hackers generally regarded copy protection as an insult and an annoyance. It was, at best, a challenge that couldn't be ignored. And the hackers and crackers always won. Always. It was just a matter of time.
      Bryce went on. "I think the project is stalled because we already have a good workaround solution. Grab the latest version on VM Ware, install XP Lite into it, download the client, and roll with it."
      Bryce made it sound so obvious and effortless. Paige knew it would take her all day. And she couldn't let on that she'd never heard of VM Ware. "Make sure you set up a four-gig system partition. Virtual partition,
I should say, and a twelve-gig or so partition for the expanded image. Then, as you uncover what you're looking for, move it over to where your real tools are. That way, you don't need to install much beyond Carbonite and XP."
"Sounds easy enough. I don't know why I didn't think of that.
Thanks, man."
      "You really should consider rolling your own custom version of XP, with all of your tools preloaded. It can shave days of work off of each install. Use Norton Ghost."
Bryce was a bottomless pit of information about IT and hacking. "I'll do that, B. Is there anything I can do for you?"
"Yeah. Send more pics. You're hot as fuck." "Ok," she laughed. "I will. Peace."
"C-ya."

      Paige hung up her phone and launched uTorrent, but then thought better of it. She'd been in the hacker underground for so long, her first impulse, anymore, was to go directly to where she knew she could get the tools she needed, fast and for free. But she'd still buy the software after the fact.
      Unless it was a one-time use, she thought. A bad habit, and a slippery slope. Sure it was hard, even for her, to peel off nearly eight bills for Photoshop, but it was actually worth it. It was part of why she made
$85,000 a year.
      So she instead Googled for the VM Ware site. And there it was. A brief transaction later, and she had it downloaded. Free and clear, with a clean conscience.
      She consulted her notes from her talk with Bryce, and then remembered to pay him as well.
      She set his demo CD to burning, and then RARed up a few select photos for him, a bit racier than last time. Her pictures were worth far more than money in those circles. Most hackers got money and porn with ease. But real photos of a girl they knew? Pure gold. If only to fuel their fantasies of meeting a real-life hottie haxor.
      She sent them via Trillian, a sort of universal IM client that let her chat with almost anyone. She included a brief message, "Thx agn Brce. TTFN."
      Paige got a reply within thirty seconds. "Wow! Anytime, Paige..." If Bryce wasn't ten years her junior, she'd give him consideration.
      Finally, she popped his CD into her changer and hit play. Coffee, weed, and music handled, it was time for business. His disc, as she should have expected, was the perfect soundtrack for a day of hacking.
      He hadn't indicated what sort of music it was, and she'd assumed, for whatever reason, that it was rock. It was actually a new subset of hip- hop called nerdcore. Geeksta rap. Bryce rapped over video game samples about phreaking, spamming and cracking.
      It made her nostalgic in more ways than one. First, of all, Paige hadn't been interested in rap for over fifteen years. The new stuff was all dreck. Cutting edge rap over Nintendo memories from her youth made her positively misty-eyed.
      VM Ware had a lot of complicated options. She knew Bryce would be happy to help, but she had her pride. It took a lot longer, but she

managed to get everything working. It was now three in the afternoon, however.
      She dumped the keylogger output to her laser printer and got a highlighter. Six of them, actually. She dialed the local Chinese take-out, asked for her usual order to be delivered, and jumped in the shower.
      When she got out, she was refreshed. Between the keylogger and the drive image, she hoped to uncover some leads. She had just settled in at her place in front of the coffee table when the doorbell rang. And she was famished, naturally. Apparently, she had the metabolism of a shrew.
      They had debited her card for the food, but she tipped the delivery girl well, and dug in as she read and highlighted.
      There really didn't seem to be much of interest. Google, eBay. She read some meth-fueled attempts at fiction which where interesting, at first, but went nowhere. He was no Hunter S. Thompson. The email he sent (she made a mental note to remember the guys name, but his email address was speedball2@yahoo.com, so she'd come to think of him as Speedball) was pretty innocuous, as well. He seemed to mostly read and actually reply to junk email.
      A dead end, in other words. Far from a smoking gun, there seemed to be nothing of value in the entire account. She hoped the hard drive image contained more of interest.
      VM Ware, she learned, created a virtual machine inside your PC. Hence the name. It had endless uses. Web designers and Java coders could test across a variety of platforms and configurations on a single machine.
      Instead of a single operating system (multi-boot systems not being practical in this case), one machine could run an instance of XP, 2000, 98, MacOS, BeOS and seventy-six flavors of Unix/Linux, resources permitting. It was a massive time-saver.
      Hobbyists (who mostly didn't actually buy it, she guessed) could use it to give new OSes a test drive without disturbing their current install. She knew some people collected operating systems like philatelists collected stamps.
      In Paige's case, she was using it to rectify a problem with her default Alienware configuration: a lack of spare partitioned drive spaces. With VMWare she could unpack the carbonized drive image using her available storage.

      At 4 p.m., before she rolled up her sleeves and dove into the drive image, where she could conceivably spend the night, she called the Investigative Support Services division.
"Charlie! How's it going? This is Paige." "Oh, hi, Paige. I have something for you." "Awesome! Can you fax it over?"
"Paige, if I put it in a fax machine, I may never sire an heir." "Ha ha, fucker."
      "Ok, seriously. I have the visitation log you guys got the court order for. Twenty-four hour turn around, eh? Impressive."
      "Well, time is of the essence where concerns homicide, right? What format is it in? Just a paper list, I guess.
"Paige, baby. Who loves ya like Telly Savalas?" "Erm, you do, Charlie?"
      "Yes, I do. I already OCR'd it, spell corrected it, double checked the numbers and spent a little time on formatting. Do you want it in Word format, RTF, TXT, or PDF?"
"All of them," she teased.
"Well, tough shit, my love. It's a doc. I'm not a machine, Paige.
Well, I'm a bit of a sex machine, actually."
      "I'm sure, Charlie. But if you ever want to take me out, get it to me in Access format next time."
"Seriously?"
      "Yes, on both accounts. Email me what you have, and I'll move you to the 'maybe' list."
      She made a smooch sound and hung up. Minutes later, Thunderbird chirped to indicate incoming email. A text file was better than a fax, but relational databases reigned supreme. She decided to cop a buzz and knock together a quick DB.
      Charlie did neat work, and with a minimum of massaging, Paige was able to import the text file into Access, populating the database skeleton she created for the occasion. Doing it that way probably saved her a least a full hour of tedious cutting and pasting.
      Now she could sort and cross-reference to hearts content. Access, Excel, Word and Visual Basic were the only things Microsoft had ever gotten right, in her opinion. She printed the listed, sorted chronologically, its native format, so to speak, and remembered something.

      She had read the log file and found nothing, but she never looked at the text picture and system files she grabbed. Now that she had the drive image, she could do it that way, instead.

Chapter 6 - Busted
      Jean was walking on air. He was usually stoically indifferent to the acquisition of a new girlfriend, especially as far as the world at large was concerned. But he was crazy about Maxxy, and she knew it. In fact, most people Jean encountered sensed a change in him.
      Previously, the majority of his joy derived from his relationships came from two areas: conquest and sex. He liked the sensations he got from what he considered outsmarting women, which, given his I.Q, was hardly a challenge. Other than that, he enjoyed the sex. A lot.
      The rest, he considered a burden. Courtship rituals akin to dances some birds do, or intertwining snakes. He was ever mindful of the fate in store for the male black widow spider or praying mantis.
      He spent the next two days after their date deep into his coding. Rather than being a distraction as most females had been, Maxine inspired him and spurred him on to greatness. He checked in code nearly every six hours, around the clock, and somehow managed to catch up with his lab work and writing in the same time frame.
      When the phone finally rang a day later than she said she would call, he hadn't really noticed she was late. In a sense, she was with him the whole time.
"Professor Simons?" a voice asked.
      "Yes?" he'd answered before he caught the joke. This close to his PhD, he had already accepted this honorific in his mind.
"Maxine!" he yelped at realization. "What's up, doc?" she said.
      "Just working" he replied. To any other female, he would have continued that phrase, "on the ole' doctorate." But with Maxxy, he felt no need to lord his position over her.
      "I have to visit my sick grandmother. Want to come along?" This was code for "Meet me at the current drop spot."
      Jean hit control-p on his keyboard and spooled off two copies of his module for Project Douglas. "On my way, ma," he said.
      He considered the situation for a moment, and then grabbed a wicker-handled basket from his closet, his spare helmet, a warm-weather jacket, and hit the door.
      There'd been a change between him and J.B, of course. Gone was the light banter worthy of a Hollywood buddy movie. Beezy spent his

waking hours elsewhere. There was no hostility on either side, but with graduation looming, their partnership was set to expire soon anyway, and neither could devote their scant available resources delaying its dissolution.
      He put everything in the trunk of his Charger, and climbed in. He'd spent a fair amount of time tuning and modifying it. A lot of people didn't realize that with the proper interface, they could readjust factory parameters on any modern car's electronic brain and eke out hidden pockets of performance.
      This, in Jean's choice of mods, meant reduced performance, from a fuel-economy standpoint. But when combined with his physical tunings, part exchanges and exhaust replacement, it was well worth the tradeoff. It sounded like a beast, and also performed like one. Besides, if he needed to save on fuel, that's what the bike was for.
      On his way to the campus park to meet Maxine, he dropped a copy of his code module on the prof's desk for review. He was grateful for once that the old man was away from his desk. Even explaining that he had no time to talk could take fifteen minutes. He'd miss those conversations very soon, he thought.
      He arrived to see Maxxy leaning against the trunk of her own Charger. His was fire-engine red, and hers was charcoal gray.
"Nice car," she said when he stepped out. "Wanna race?"

      "Racist," he punned. Without pondering the consequences, Jean pressed her against the trunk of her car and kissed her passionately. She responded in the affirmative.
      At her feet was a non-descript gym bag. When they had terminated their fluid exchange of hellos, she nodded toward it. "I think you'll find everything to your liking."
      "Give me minute, please." He scooped up the contraband and sat back behind the wheel for a minute. When he got out, he put the duffel in his trunk.
"Want to take a ride?" he asked. "In that? I have my own, shug."
"Let's drop your car off at home, and ride with me back to the

dorm."


She eyed him with a look between bemusement and suspicion. "Trust me," he said.

      "Famous last words," was her reply. "Trust is not an attribute on my character sheet."
"You are such a geek," he said, smiling.
      She had no choice but to return the same. Their conversations went so fluidly and easily. Who else among her clientele could she slip a Dungeons and Dragons joke by, and not be considered strange for it? She felt so at ease, she let her ever-vigilant guard down.
"Ok," she said lightly.
      Maxine followed him loosely back toward her off-campus apartment. When they'd neared the edge of campus, a motorcycle cop of the non-campus variety flashed his light and siren at Jean only once, and he was forced to pull over.
      He remained behind the wheel, knuckles white as he gripped the padded leather. And watched as Maxine drove past, never turning her head to look at him.
      "The bitch set me up," he said, delivering a line made famous by former D.C. mayor Marion Berry.
      As the officer approached, Jean withdrew his wallet and retrieved his paper work from the glove box, careful not to fumble. Sadistic Nazi motherfuckers, he thought.
      "Hey, man," the cop said into his window. "Can I ask you a few questions about your car?"
Jean said nothing, but tried to hand over his bona fides.
      "Oh, I don't give a fuck about that shit," he said, nodding at the documents Jean had hoped would allow his escape.
      A sinking feeling, previously limited to the pit of his stomach, permeated his entire being. He tried to absorb the seriousness of the situation, to calculate the ramifications of the schedule one and two narcotics in the trunk. The impact it would have on his academic career. Maxine's abject betrayal.
      Jean elected to step out of the car. "Am I going to need a lawyer?" he asked, striving for the right sort of joviality in his voice.
      "Only if you can't answer my questions," the young traffic cop said in all seriousness.
      "Jean sighed heavily. "Was I speeding or something? No turn signal?" He tried to remember the sequence of events that led him to this current Golgotha, this new and personal Gehenna.

      "What?" the cop asked, looking confused. "No, nothing like that. Is this your car?"
"Of course," was Jean's reply. "Only forty more payments to go." "How'd you get it to sound like that?"
      Realization dawned on Jean. "Motherfucker, you pulled me over to talk car talk?"
      The cop, M. Watson according to his name tag, looked genuinely hurt by this.
      "Oh, yeah. Sorry, I didn't really think about that. I'm on my way home. Off-duty." He grinned at Jean, but Jean saw a leering skull, not a friendly rookie traffic cop.
"I have a Charger too. My favorite car, as far as modern vehicles

go." clear.

The kid was talking a mile a minute, and Jean realized he was in the "I always see you around the campus. Between here and that

Chinatown area, that's my beat. I always look for a reason to pull you over, but you never seem to disobey traffic laws."
      Jean eyed him with something now approaching relief and amusement.
      "I wasn't going to ticket you anyway, but it would have been an opportunity to talk."
      Ten minutes of car talk later, and the cop had a list of parts, URLs and phone numbers.
      "...but if I catch you doing that shit to someone else, I'll have your badge."
"Yes, sir. I apologize, Mr. Simons."
      With that, the kid sped off, duly chastised but thrilled with the information he'd acquired.
      Jean got back behind the wheel and shook uncontrollably. His life had nearly been destroyed on a whim.
      He thought about Maxine driving past him, never even turning to view his plight or make eye contact. Her betrayal reconfirmed every negative view he had of women.
      "License and registration, please," a voice said into his passenger- side window.

      He jumped, startled out of his ruminations, to see Maxine opening the door to get in.
      "I'm glad that went well," she said. "You must have handled your business."
      Jean found himself unable to speak, but she answered his unspoken question.
      "I parked at the heezy, and walked back around the block. My car's dirty," she said simply.
      "But I came equipped." She patted her bulging pants pocket, and then raised her shirt to reveal her taut stomach and a double-action three- eighty Parabellum handgun.
Jean gazed into the dark reflecting pools of her eyes. "I thought-" he
began.
"Shit. L.A bitch. I couldn't risk copping multiple felonies after I got
out of the life," she said. "Too much irony for this girl." "What's in your pocket?" he finally asked.
      "Twelve thousand dollars. Bail money." She elaborated on her plans. "I was going to do a walk-by, or come bail you out, depending on the circumstances."
"Would you really have shot at him?" he asked finally.
      "I would have shot both of you, if I had to," she said simply. "But I was pretty sure you could be trusted."
"Have you ever shot anyone before?" "Not in Alabama. Let's GTFO."
      Jean headed for her apartment. "Hey, I thought we were taking a drive?" she asked in all seriousness. "Are you ok?"
      Jean had to think about it. "Yeah, I will be." He gripped her hand between them and circled back to campus.
      When he parked in front of the dorm, Maxxy asked, "What are we doing here?"
"You have a car like this, remember?"
      Jean popped the trunk, and they got out. He handed her a helmet and nodded at the Fatboy Harley in the motorcycle parking space next to him.
      Wordlessly, she put hers on. He grabbed his own and the basket. Before he closed the trunk, he eyed the gym bag that nearly ruined him. But it wasn't the bag's contents that threatened his life, he thought. It was the authoritarian nature of some.

      He strapped the picnic basket behind her seatback, and put his helmet on as well.
As she turned to get on the back seat, Jean said, "Maxxy?"
      She turned back to face him. "Thank you," he said simply and honestly.
She stepped forward and embraced him, arms encircling his waist.
As they move to kiss, their helmets bounced off of each other.
      "Like two turtles fucking," she said, and they both had to laugh, relieved.

Chapter 7 - Square Peg, Part Three
      Paige ran the same searches again. The victim, Speedballer, was actually named Benjamin Miller, she recalled from his mostly untouched police file. She read it and found nothing very helpful. Arrest records were half fiction anyway.
      But Ben's personal documents were a bit more revealing. There were more complete essays he'd written. It was bizarre, drug-fueled stuff about aliens, prophecy, time travel, astral projection and other concepts Paige didn't particularly care about. She'd never encountered such things, and judging by the confusion they seem to have sown in Miller's mind, she hoped she never did.
      The pity was, in her opinion, he was neither prolific nor talented enough to be recognized as a writer, even posthumously. His efforts would end up in a police evidence room, wiped out before the machine would be sold down the line at auction.
      There were some things that did constitute evidence, however scant. For one, she found a voluminous document outlining at least four different methods of making crystal methamphetamine.
      It would have probably closed the case, if this were a narcotics investigation. Paige was glad it wasn't. She had hated working narco, even in California, where she never once had to bust anyone for pot. Somehow, working homicide was actually less seedy than the drug underworld, which was actually rife with rape, torture and kidnapping, in addition to massive numbers of killings.
      The recipes were pretty complete, which was rare. Meth recipes were often treated as folklore, passed on by word of mouth, and rarely written down. She couldn't be sure without more work, but they seemed to have had more than one author.
      It was neatly edited, with all the obsessive precision meth use brings, early on, anyway. She used to wonder how people who were so careful and paranoid got busted, when she joined the force.
      Later on she realized that their paranoia actually worked against them in the latter stages of their addiction. What was caution on the upswing of their bell curve turned into noticeably bizarre behavior on their eventual slide back down. It also uncovered and amplified any underlying psychoses they had.

      Post-decline meth use pretty much mirrored schizophrenia. This all led to carelessness and lots of behaviors that eventually got them tagged as users. And poor users of meth eventually became sellers, cooks, or whores.
      There was another type of meth user, Paige knew. The construction worker, the writer, the artist, the musician. The doctor, lawyer, cop, judge. They used meth to be productive. Super-productive. People who could easily afford their little habits, and used in moderation.
      There was still a negative health impact, but most never progressed to full-blown addiction. Addiction led to binge usage, which was the most unhealthy aspect of most drugs, and also disrupted their previously well- ordered and scheduled lives.
      Paige often felt that pharmaceutical meth and cocaine, devoid of contaminants, could revolutionize the country, if people's addictions were controlled. It would be a long time before even California considered that sort of decriminalization, she knew. But she dutifully voted Libertarian at each election, all the same.
      She was also keenly aware that such drugs fueled the Nazi war machine in World War II, and that benzedrine and amphetamines even got our own pilots amped up for long-distance flying and battle.
      Paige never needed speed, anyway, as she was naturally hyper to begin with. Coffee and marijuana were plenty. As long as she had at least one of them at hand, she could work twenty hour days for months at a time, provided she had a project to motivate her.
      Coffee to wake her up and get zinging, pot to inspire and spur her creativity, and when the caffeine wore off, more herb to sedate her and let her mind and body rest and repair itself. Her system got results, too.
      More so that the recipes, which mostly supported her belief that this murder was essentially a slightly more sophisticated robbery, Paige found what appeared to be directions.
      She'd actually overlooked it, before. She made a note to check the recipient. It was cryptic shorthand, so she didn't think much of it, before. It also didn't make reference to specific landmarks or addresses, so it would be fairly impossible to locate.
      But who ever it was sent to knew where it was, and what was there. Paige knew it was a lab or a cache of cooked dope. Possibly, a big stash of pre-cursor chemicals.

      That was the problem with prohibition. It resulted in ludicrous new laws that made the purchase of over-the counter drugs like Sudafed both legal and illegal at the same time. Worse than '1984', it resulted in a Kafkaesque world more akin to Terry Gillian's film 'Brazil'. Almost anyone could e arrested at any time, according to laws that were nonsensical on their face.
      Meth precursor laws also resulted in a lot of innocent farmers being robbed and even killed for even a quart of anhydrous ammonia. Meth users considered anhydrous homebrew to be the best crystal short of the super-lab variety.
      Whatever was once located at the spot indicated by the vague directions was gone, now, and was also valuable enough to kill for. Convinced that this was the lead she was looking for, Paige rechecked the log file.
      When she did, she felt a tingle of electricity. It was sent to Angel1968@yahoo.com. The suspected girl friend? She hadn't considered that the killer was female, but she knew that all too well that it was entirely possible.
      In fact, few people knew that meth was partly behind the Manson killings. Tex Watson and Susan Atkins were secretly imbibing from a Gerber's baby food jar full of meth on both nights, before the LaBianca house and the Polanski residence.
      That was a case she would have loved to have investigated. Poor Sharon Tate, beautiful and eight months pregnant, begging for her unborn child to be cut of her so it could live, even as she died. The epitome of tragedy.
      Ed Saunders, in 'The Family', laid out the case for the Manson murders being contract killings, and it was compelling stuff. Few knew that Charles Manson had extensive underworld ties due to a near lifetime in prison.
      In fact, he did time with one of the last surviving gangsters from the Capone era. Manson definitely had mob ties. And Leno LaBianca, supermarket owner, did as well.
      As coincidences go, in a murder investigation, that was highly significant. Saunders put forth the additional theory that the Hollywood party crowd at the Polanski-Tate residence were killed because they owed a considerable amount to the mob for drugs.

      Paige felt that theory didn't hold much water. Any single resident that night could have probably paid that in cash, especially to save their lives. Perhaps not Jay Sebring, but Abigail Folger, heir to the Folger's coffee fortune?
      Sharon Tate, one of the brightest up-and-coming stars in Hollywood, at the time? Even director Roman Polanski, absent that night, could have easily afforded it. Furthermore, Paige knew Hollywood types didn't deal with the mob directly.
      They bought from middle-men, and such middle men would incur the wrath of that organization for such a hit. It could have potentially led to a bigger investigation, and so the intermediary dealer would probably have been killed as a result.
      Paige had developed her own pet theory, one that she'd never heard espoused before. She suspected Roman Polanski himself had placed the hit. But she was pretty sure the chief wasn't going to let her reopen that particular case file. Hollywood and the music industry regularly got away with murder. Ask Jim, Jim, Janis, Bob or Kurt, for instance. Hell, ask Elvis. Not all of them were murdered but a few of them definitely indicated a pattern. That included John Lennon as well. There were even huge anomalies in the RFK case that Paige would have loved to have tackled.
      Actually, she mused, as an investigator, she could make a credible case for Elvis' death being faked. And, had she been Manson's lawyer, she could have gotten him off. He wasn't properly charged, murder instead of conspiracy, and Nixon himself gave cause to have a mistrial declared.
      Instead, Paige was working to avenge the death of a two-bit pusher and cook who probably didn't deserve to live in the first place, and had probably helped to kill more people than O.J. and the Manson family combined. Oh, well. She was probably just born too late. Maybe she'd get an important case down the road.
      She got up for fresh coffee to clear her head. She was losing focus, letting her mind wander. She was working her way through bullet points of an investigative outline she'd developed, but it didn't pay to adhere too rigidly to it, a foolish consistency being the hobgoblin of small minds and all that.
      So, Angel, whoever that was, and Miller worked together, and shared the same PC, but apparently not the same house. Interesting.

      That thought, spurred on by a fresh jolt of caffeine, gave her an idea. Cyber crime investigation technically wasn't her forte, or she'd have checked this out already.
      Word maintained a document editing history by default. In newer versions, this option was turned off at the initial install, but Ben Miller happened to be using a fairly ancient pirated copy.
      When she examined the editing history, she knew she was really on to something. Both Angel and Miller had worked on the recipes, semi- collaboratively. They had each modified and added to it at different times, but it was indeed a joint effort.
      It was when she compared the logfile and visitor list's times that she hit another snag.
      Shit. There was no correlation at all. The damn doper's date and time settings on the PC were wildly off, by a matter of years. Possibly by design, but more than likely through carelessness, or because the battery on the motherboard of the creakily ancient Wal-Mart purchased E-machine had failed.
It would have been too easy to solve, otherwise. Shit.
Paige decided to see if the image search turned up anything of value.
And she got an eye full.
      There were hundreds of pictures, some quite tasteful; others were pretty alarming and disturbing. At first, she got the impression that she'd stumbled upon someone's kiddy porn collection.
      It was actually more of a legal fetish. The photographs were all clothed females. Perhaps some were underage. Ok, some were definitely in their early and late teens. But all clothed, fully legal stuff. You couldn't really be busted for jerking off to a copy of 'Seventeen' magazine or 'Teen Cosmo' either.
      They were photos of harajuku Girls and cosplayers, a subject Paige knew only a bit about. Each girl was exquisite, exotic, and somehow totally wholesome while at the same time wildly erotic. She could fully understand the attraction these girls held.
      Harajuku was an ongoing Japanese phenomenon with an ever- changing variety of trends and subsets. Kinderwhore girls dressed like pre- school prostitutes, mixing porn star caliber clothing with childhood icons like backpacks, lunch boxes, ribbons and oversized lollipops worthy of Willie Wonka.

      In fact, in Japan it was perfectly permissible, somehow, to accept money from older men, for sex or companionship. It was known as compensated dating. It was a way to acquire the latest smart phones, PDAs, game systems and clothing that fueled the harajuku style.
      Not that all, or even most harajuku participated in compensated dating. To many, it was just a way to stand out in conformist Japan.
      Paige was more drawn to the steampunk girls. They dressed in super sexy Victorian-era clothing that revealed little skin, but were all the more exciting because of it. Steampunk was sort of reverse future primitive, imagining an eighteen-hundreds era world populated by wild, steam- powered vehicle, machines and even computers.
      More than a little aroused, she knew that late tonight she'd be viewing a slide show on her plasma screen with Ms Kitty.
      There were other 'juku styles she didn't much care for. One was a rather disturbing parody of California surfer girls and Barbie dolls, with orange-bronze skin and harshly bleached hair.
      Another revolved around girls in black face. In Japan, you could still get old tubes of Darkie brand toothpaste, replete with an exaggerated negro cartoon mascot on the box. Considered racially insensitive here in the multi-cultural U.S., Paige knew this was more an extension of their fascination with American culture that overt racism. Two-thirds of the female Asians she knew who dated outside of their race dated black men, it seemed.
      The hentai she came across was what had really freaked her out, a bit. Manga and Anime were Japanese cartoon and comic book art and story style. Hentai was the semi-underground in the U.S. subculture of Manga.
      It was surprisingly main stream in Japan. The sedate, reserved Japanese lived wildly rich and exciting fantasy lives in response to their surface culture. Hentai was wildly violent and hypersexual.
      Really, it was only surprising to westerners. Child porn was only outlawed in the eighties in Japan, and existed in part in response to Japanese laws forbidding pubic hair in pornography.
      The girls in hentai were all petite, with the bodies of nine to twelve year old girls. They had huge child-like eyes and facial features, and they all constantly craved huge cocks, it seemed.
      When hentai began to enter America, it begat a new sort of disclaimer. "All models depicted in these cartoons are 18 years or older." In

Paige's mind, it was better that people looked at hentai than turned their attentions on little girls in real life. Assuming one didn't lead to the other, of course.
      The other aspect of hentai that disturbed Paige's western sensibilities was the obsession with violent rape and bondage. In fact, hentai made regular rape and bondage sort of quaint. In those cartoons and comics, the girls were generally held down and raped by tentacles and demons.
      It was all interesting stuff, but legal, and it didn't seem germane to the case. However, looking at the file paths, they were all located in Angel's account, not Benjamin Miller's, as she'd expected. An unexpected twist. Maybe Angel wasn't a female after all. Or she was a female with rather unusual tastes.
      Ordinarily, only geek girls and Asian women were involved in manga and hentai. Were women involved, this would be her first female hentai fan and meth cook.
      She used Ben's administrative account to change the password on the Angel account, and logged on. Paige was getting one of those feelings.
      She re-ordered her visitor database to sort by lot number, and printed it. She was looking for Miller's lot number, first, but it was conspicuous in its absence, so she turned her attention back to the Angel account without reading the rest of the sort.
      Ugh. Both Angel and Miller used a stock Internet Explorer as their browser. She launched it and hoped their inexperience extended into password insecurity. She's had no luck getting into their email accounts, due to no passwords being captured by the keylogger.
      Thinking about it, there were no references to the Angel account in the keylogger file at all. Paige really began to feel she was on to something real.
      Of course, she couldn't access Angel's email account either. Apparently, they did know a little something about security after all. She sighed. If this was easy work, anyone could do it, she reminded herself.
      She pulled up Angel's surfing history and printed it. Very sloppy, she thought. Erasing your tracks thoroughly was the first thing people needed to learn if they wanted to commit crimes.
      Then she archived all of the cookies, and deposited the RAR on her own account's desktop. Only then did she begin to dig around.

      She got sidetracked again, slightly, looking at a site in the cache called J-list. They were American importers of Japanese pop culture items.
      She looked at it not because she thought it would help her solve the crime, but because she was still captivated by the doll-like beauty of the Japanese girls she been admiring earlier, and because she happened to know Ms. Kitty was purchased for her by a girlfriend from that site, years earlier.
      Sadly, Sanrio Corporation no longer licensed Hello Kitty's likeness for the manufacture of sex toys. She'd have to take better care of her, and made a mental note to purchase a back up from eBay, in the event the unthinkable occurred. Even if she had a spare, there really was only one Ms Kitty. Her affection had to do more with who had purchased it for her, a French girl named Suzanne Flechette.
      She was about to close the J-list page when she finished scrolling down to the bottom of the front page, and more or less solved the case.
      "Well, I'll be goddamned," she said, and dialed the chief. "Meet me at the evidence locker in an hour, boss."
      She sent the archived cookies, along with the surfing history, to PC forensics, and bcc'd them to Bryce, in case PCF weren't up to the task.
      She attacked the list from the guard shack with renewed vigor. This time she sorted by license plate number, and re-read the list with new eyes.
      Yowie zowie. She had the motherfucker, now. She dialed an officer whose job it was to run DMV information for the department.
      Three minutes later, she had the name, address and phone number of the killer. She took a breath, looked at her watch and realized it was eleven
p.m. It was a good thing they ran a twenty-four hour shop at work. The suspense would have killed her.
      At least the chief took it well, she thought. She took a few tokes of haze. She'd earned it, and then some. Forgoing her usual sense of style, considering the late hour, Paige pulled on a Pixies t-shirt and sweatpants.
As she was about to leave, she got an IM.
      "WTF? Cll me". Tt was Bryce. Sometimes IM shorthand was just silly. She dialed him up, also unwilling to spend time laboriously typing.
      "Hey!" she said. "Did you really save a lot of time by leaving the 'a' out of 'call'?"
      He laughed. "N00b." She could actually hear the leet speak in his diction. "What did you send me? I mean, I know, but I wanted to know if you know."

      "Yeah, it's some browser cache data I stole from some guy. I haven't analyzed it yet. But I thought it may interest you."
      "There's a really convoluted trail of proxies in there. Somebody tried to hide something, really hard. Looking at it, chronologically, he used one proxy to subscribe to another one, and so on. Do you erm, require my services?"
      Paige knew he could do just about anything, from getting into the email account to getting into the proxy accounts to getting the cc into. But from the sound of his voice, the price would be too dear, and at this point she had enough evidence to convict, she felt. Or at least to generate a stack of subpoenas.
      "No, not this time, Bryce. I just thought you'd find it interesting as well. I'll give you the scoop tomorrow. I'm out the door actually."
"Aww, Paige."
"I know Bryce. Keep your pants on, ok?" He laughed. "Lol," he said.
      "I'm sure I'll need you big time, some day. Like, hot chat or camming indebtedness."
"Yow. A guy can dream, anyway." "When I do you'll be the first to know." "Sweet."
"Goodnight, Bryce."
      She arrived early and was surprised to see the chief hadn't. He was getting old, she thought. Paige was making the rounds, telling various people hello, when she heard, "This better be good, goddammit. Calling me at midnight is a bunch of goddamned bullshit, golden girl."
"It's midnight now, chief."
"I was raised on mountain time, goddammit!"
Was the chief making a joke? Hard to tell. She laughed, either way. "So, what are we here to look at, Paige?"
"A watermelon, chief."
      "A watermelon! Is that a goddamned nigger joke, girl wonder? Will there be goddammed fried chicken? I's powerful hungry, goddammit!"
Finally, her laughter caused him to crack a smile.
      "Ok, let's see your melon, Paige." She didn't bite on that one, but led him to Evidence, where a cooler sat on a table, wisps of steam emanating off it in a display of convection and brownian motion.

      Paige donned some dust-free latex gloves and spread a large sheet of wax paper on the table beside the ice chest. They both knew the melon fragments yielded no prints, but the chief had taught her "Nothing left to chance."
      Paige began assembling watermelon fragments like puzzle pieces. After a minute or two, an outline began to form. The chief picked up a piece of melon with his ungloved hand, and she resisted the urge to take it from him and launch into a mini lecture on proper evidentiary procedures.
      Since when do watermelons have corners, Burner?" he asked. "It's like Picasso meets Uncle Remus."
      Apparently, the chief turned into an existential comedian after midnight.
"Furthermore, how did we miss this? How did you miss this?" "Forrest for the trees, chief. We expect watermelons to be round.
Furthermore, yourself. I didn't miss it," she teased. "It just took me a while to figure it out."
"So how does this translate into a closed case?"
      "The killer's name in Anthony Grier. Nee Antonio Guterrez. Nee 'Angel' Gutierrez. He's a smalltime cook and runner affiliated with the Mexican mafia. He's of mixed descent and changed his name legally. Probably in an effort to hide his original identity, to a degree."
      He and Benjamin Miller put in work together. That trailer was as much a safe house as a residence. They cooked off-site, and crashed and handled the business end from the park. Miller held the lease, but they took turns staying there. One probably made supply runs while the other slept it off. I suspect you'll learn from Angel that he killed his partner over a large amount on anhydrous-based meth. Ten pounds or so."
She paused to breathe, and the chief stepped in. "Now prove it to
me."
Paige handed him he visitor list she'd sorted by license plate
number. "Angel visited the park sixteen times last month. And he stupidly gave a different lot number almost every time, each in the area surrounding Ben Miller's trailer."
"I remain impressed, Paige Burner. But we can't arrest him based on
that."
"You didn't let me finish, chief. The watermelon-cum-silencer was
ordered on Miller's computer. To Miller's residence. Your people missed it

after they took over the investigation." "You missed it, too, Paige."
      "Sort of. Once I knew what to look for. I'm just glad it was easy to spot. I'm not prone to dumpster diving as a rule, chief. I picked the shipping box up on the way over. It was sitting on the ground next to the dumpster." She smiled.
"Damn lucky for you, Burner."
      "Not really chief. Forensics can follow his back trail online. I already did, basically," she sniffed. "There aren't a lot of places to get square watermelons, chief."
"I guess goddamn not. What the fuck was that about?"
      "Angel was apparently really into Japanese things, girls mostly. Space is at a premium in Japan. So they grow them square to save refrigerator space."
"No shit?"
      "I think Angel timed it to arrive when Miller was making a run or something. Then, I figure he maybe disguised himself as a delivery man and came when he knew Ben Miller would be there."
"Why not use a regular watermelon?"
      "Think, methhead, chief. Wouldn't you open the door for a delivery man with a square watermelon?"
"Yeah, I would."
"Anyway, ask Angel himself. I'm taking the rest of the week off." "The rest of the week? It's only Tuesday, goddammit!" "Wednesday, Chief. Check your watch."
      And with that, she strolled out of the evidence room. She had a date with a slideshow and a Tupperware container. And a white Japanese cartoon cat.

Chapter 8 - The Trip
      Jean and Maxine drove about twenty mile northeast to a nondescript state park that was unmanned, and appeared to be little more than a parking lot and rest area. It was quiet and out of the way, but there appeared to be little of interest.
      When they'd taken off their helmets, placing them on their respective seats, Maxine asked, "What's in the pick-a-nick basket, Boo?"
"You'll see. Give me a few minutes."
      Jean produced four Zig-zags, and proceeded to crumble most of a sack of hydro, genetic strain unknown, onto the wooden top of the basket. He was dimly aware that it had been in his pocket when he had been stopped by the traffic cop, along with something else.
      "What's with the papes?" she asked, full of questions. "I have my pipe, and some clear skins. Them Zig-zags are nasty to me, now."
"Ssshhh," was his reply.
      He stuck two papers together in a L-shaped configuration and twisted half of the cleaned herb into a cone worthy of 'Catch A Fire'.
"Are you crazy? I could smoke for a week on that much weed." "Light-weight."
"Ok, three days. But, damn."
"That one's yours," he said, handing her the first one.
      Jean proceeded to roll another cone via a more complicated method she could not discern. Finally, he produced a cellophane packet, and extracted two squares of paper, each less than an eighth of an inch in size.
"Here," he said, and put one under his tongue.
      "Uh-uh," was Maxxy's reply. "Black people are not about eating no acid. Only, like Jimi Hendrix, and he was from Venus. Allegedly."
"C'mon," he said. "It's a single dose. Bayer's Chewable Baby Acid.
Paper laughter."
      "Hey, I sell lots of shit I don't take. Like meth. Black people will snort powder, but we don't do meth. We'll smoke crack, but not ice. Secretly, I suspect we don't want to work that hard. Ya'll get on that shit and go work 18-hour days. Black people like to go up and down."
"Trust me..." For the second time that day, she did.
      Without further debate, she locked eyes with Jean, opened her mouth, and stuck out her tongue.

      As he was placing the tab on her tongue, in a move vaguely reminiscent of a Catholic mass, she closed her mouth, engulfing his finger, and gave his fingertip a little swirl with her tongue.
      When she finished, Maxine asked him, "So what's this stuff do anyway? I mean, I know, but I don't know. You know?"
"Think happy thoughts," he said.
      He placed the remaining cleaned weed back in the bag, pocketed it, and flipped the handles around, somehow turning the picnic basket into a backpack. Before he put it on, he took out a small flute-like instrument and a pointed hat with a feather on it.
Placing the hat on his head, he asked, "How do I look?" "Like Robin Hood," she said.
"Excellent."
      He stuck the flute, actually a recorder, in his back pocket, put the now backpack on, and led them to a path into the trees.
      When they'd gotten inside the treeline a bit, he lit his cone and handed her the lighter.
"Maxxy?"
"Jean?"
"I love you."
She smiled, but said nothing in reply and lit her own spliff.
      And so they both walked and smoked in silence, enjoying the time away from their hectic college lives. American culture provides few respites from the constant barrage of audio-visual noise which prevents people from getting in touch with their inner selves.
      Another fifteen minutes later, and they were both thoroughly baked, so Jean put the remainders away. As they stood in a clearing, Maxine moved in close, delivering a kiss that was equal parts emotive and passionate.
"Mmmm," was Jean's reply. "Where are we going?" she asked.
"Just a sort of secret place I know of."
      He began to play the recorder as they walked. Soon, the acid started to kick in.
      The ground gradually became more hilly, and their progress slowed slightly. The evening's sun light filtered through the trees, giving everything a nearly supernatural glow.

      Maxine began to absorb more detail as time went on. Jean's somewhat hypnotic tunes at some point ended, and were replaced with bird songs. Soon, she found herself admiring the rough exterior of the trees, the fractal perfection of the pine needles, the magical properties of sunlight.
"It's so pretty," she said, nearly under her breath.
      They crested a hill, and came to a large clearing at the top. From their vantage point, they could see the setting sun.
"Let's take a break," he said softly.
      He produced a thin blanket from the basket and spread it on the grass, motioning for her to sit.
      They sat, fingers intertwining, knees touching, until the sun dipped beneath the horizon. Time seemed to slow and stretch. The longer they were still, the more they saw.
      Squirrels. Rabbits. The birds serenaded them until night was fully upon them. They both watched reverently as a doe and her fawn crossed the path at the base of their hill.
      "Bambi," Maxxy whispered, and they both broke into a fit of giggling.
      When they finally again fell silent, Jean said, "Look," and pointed upward. The stars were out.
      He lay backward and stretched his arm out behind her, and she followed his lead, placing her head on his arm, and nestling close to his body.
      The stars pulsed and swirled above their heads. Maxine had never in her life viewed the night sky with such clarity of vision.
      At some point, in the peak of their shared experience, a shooting star fell left to right across their field of view.
"Ooohhh," was all she could manage to say.
      Jean produced a second blanket from the seemingly bottomless picnic basket, and they eventually slept, spoon fashion, until the dawn.
      Jean awoke first, out of habit, and raided the contents of the basket, emptying it. Maxine opened her eyes twenty minutes later to find an array of sliced fruits, meats, cheeses, crackers, Melba toast and bottled water.
      When he saw she was awake, he lit a candle, which sat in the center of the arrangement.
"Good morning, starshine," he said

      Maxine's brief moment of disorientation gave way to realization as she recalled the wondrous beauty she had experienced the night before.
      Hunger and thirst helped to ground her, and they ate breakfast gazing at each other with an implied hunger that went beyond simple nutrition.
      When most of the smorgasbord had been consumed, Jean asked, "How do you feel?"
      "It's funny. I feel like I was just born, today. Great. Sort of what I remember from being a kid, when a puddle of water in the park was like a pool. An ocean you could play in all day and never get bored."
      "That's as apt a description of the experience as I've ever heard," Jean said. He produced two champagne glasses, a miniature bottle of Crystal, and a single rolled joint.
      He filled their glasses and lit the remainder of their breakfast. Handing her a bubbling flute of the shimmering pink-yellow liquid, he raised his own and asked, "To us?"
      "To us," she agreed, and they clinked their glasses together in a toast that was symbolic of something much deeper.
      As they sipped their champagne and smoked, Jean said, "In ancient Japan, a couple who desired to be married met with the local Shinto priest. The two sat opposite him as he conducted the ceremony, which culminated in his igniting of a small pile of marijuana on the altar between them."
      "I never knew that," Maxine said. "And I have a minor in cultural anthropology."
      "The couple each inhaled a small amount, and with this, they were then two souls eternally connected. From there, they went to their honeymoon, and a lifetime of companionship."
      "So, what are you saying, Jean?" she asked, her eyes aglitter, teeth sparkling.
"I'm sayin," was his reply.
      They finished their own drinking and smoking ritual, and Jean began to repack the picnic basket.
      He threw out the few remaining morsels of food, and said, "For Bambi," and they both had to laugh.
      When he had the refuse packed away, the spot again pristine, he extended his hand and pulled Maxxy to her feet. The held each other in warm embrace for what felt like forever.

      Then Jean took her hand, and grabbed the blankets, leaving the basket on the ground.
"Come on," he said.
      Instead of heading back to the park, they continued the trek they had began the previous evening, passing the treeline at the foot of the hill where the deer had crossed.
      They continued for fifteen minutes or so, treading up and down the increasingly hilly terrain. An unfamiliar sound akin to white noise began to invade the ears of Maxine.
      They crested a final hill as the sunlight exploded with brilliance, to encounter a verdant prairie, pastoral to the last detail. To their far left was a small waterfall, and a blue ribbon of water several feet wide sauntered down the middle of the wide clearing.
      Maxxy was way ahead of him. She ran to the waterfall, giddy with excitement.
      "I was going to bring you here last night, but we got here a little late. It's prettier in the sunlight."
"I'm glad we waited," Maxine said solemnly.
      And with that she unabashedly began to remove every trace of her clothing.
      Jean spread out the blanket for her to pile her clothes onto, and then he did the same.
      For a long while they splashed and frolicked in the cool, refreshing waters, laughing and yelling like children.
      Eventually, they left the stream and dried each other with the other blanket, to make love for the first and last time.

Chapter 9 - R & R
      Paige enjoyed her first few days of vacation time. She got re- organized and conducted spring-cleaning operations. Explored the new tools Bryce had told her about. Downloaded new movies for her and Ms Kitty.
      She paid for her software, but had no compunction against taking a few dollars out of the noses of coke whores and their pimps, no matter how much pleasure their chosen vocations gave her.
      She delved deeper into the on-line world of geeksta rap, and was delighted to find a flourishing microcosmic encapsulation of the by-gone eras of hip-hop. In the online nerd rap world, it was 1986 all over again, it seemed. Each Nerdcore MC, as they called themselves, could be likened to a spiritual predecessor from rap's golden era.
      She worked out daily, both at her gym, refueling her fantasies, and at home, working off the binge eating that often accompanied her work habits.
      By Saturday, she was bored stiff, and half hoped the phone would ring with the chief calling her back in early.
      On Sunday morning she nearly hurt herself rushing to answer the phone, for that very call.
      "Are you done slackin yet?" the chief asked, not being one to dance around the issue.
      "I guess..." Paige replied, not wanting to seem too eager, but at the same time overjoyed to be returning to the work she loved. "I really could use a raise, though."
      "I'll buy you a ladder, goddammit. Do you know how to get to Lemon Heights?"
"I know how to read a map, chief. Got an address?"
      "Yeah, smartass, I do. I need you to get on down here before these morbid tomb raiders clean every last bit of evidence up. The stupid motherfuckers."
      He told her the street address, and Paige wrote it down on a Post-It note, grabbed her laptop, and hit the freeway.
      Sunday morning traffic in southern California was akin to a Friday afternoon is another city. Thirty miles turned into fifty minutes of travel time. Paige realized that in her haste, she'd forgotten to bring coffee, and hadn't yet smoked that morning.

      Lemon Heights was a two-lane road that seemed to meander endlessly over and around the only mountainsides in the area. Technically Orange, California, in part, Lemon Heights was considered a city unto itself.
      A lot of extremely wealthy but private families lived here, shoulder to shoulder with a smattering of celebrities who seemed to move in and out, buying and selling houses, but never settling in for more than a few years.
      Paige suspected it was too far outside of L.A. proper for your average egomaniacal party animal celebrity.
      She found the location using her nearly forgotten Thomas Guide under her seat. In years prior to the advent of Map Quest, Google Maps and the like, no one traveled SoCal without one, and Paige still considered it a required tool in her line of work.
      Particularly when she ran out of her apartment without printing up driving directions, as she had today.
      She drove down the driveway, which branched in two directions as it wound down the mountainside beneath the elevation of the road, and noted how secluded the ungated property was.
      She took the shorter right-hand branch when she saw the myriad of police cruisers and investigative team vans.
      The house was originally a split level ranch style home that had been added onto, with an incongruous second story tacked on, as if by afterthought, to the right-hand side. Rambling, and without much style, it did possess character.
      It made her wonder about the character of the owners. Overall, Paige thought, the property wasn't very impressive, at least at first glance.
      Although the entrance wasn't taped off, Paige dialed Terry's cell phone rather than risk disturbing a latent print on the door, or by touching the doorbell. She was also reluctant to track through the house without knowing more about the crime scene.
      "Get in here, goddammit," the chief said without so much as a hello. "What took you so goddamned long?"
      Paige interpreted that to mean, "Welcome back, Ms. Burner. It's great to have you back on the job," in Chiefspeak.
      She used a pen to depress the handle that opened the heavy oaken front door, which was framed on either side by two mammoth plates of

glass, each nearly fifteen feet wide, extending ceiling to floor. They were so immaculate, you could walk right into then if you weren't careful.
      She heard a cluster of voices far to her right, and followed them through the lush elegance. The interior had the same ramshackle lack of style as the exterior, with Japanese room dividers juxtaposed with a medieval suit of armor, for instance. The entire structure bespoke of the owner's eccentricities.
      At the far end of the house was a half hexagon sun room with a dark wooden floor. Several uniformed officers and plain clothes detectives stood around. As she approached, they ceased talking amongst themselves and parted like the Red Sea to reveal a door that opened upward from the floor.
      With a nod, one of the dicks indicated that she was expected down the stairs beneath the trap door. She made note of a rug off to one side of the room, which, she surmised, ordinarily covered the entrance to this secret sub-level.
      She descended to see the chief and a senior investigator standing over the sheet-covered body that was presumably that of the property owner. But Paige didn't assume anything.
      "How did you expect me to find you in this labyrinthine abode, chief?" she asked.
      "You're a goddammed detective, goddammit!" the chief fairly exploded.
      He did have a point, there. This did not dissuade Paige from asking her next dumb question, "What do we have here?"
      Paige knew Terry's exact words in advance, and they said them in unison: "A goddamned dead body, goddammit!" The investigator behind the chief turned bright red in an effort not to laugh.
      He knew this little performance art piece was for his amusement, but the chief continued, undaunted. He either didn't know or didn't care that Paige was lightly mocking his predictable nature.
      "This," the chief said, "was Larry Tate," and pulled back the forensics hospital sheet to reveal a distinguished looking gentleman in a tacky robe worthy of Hugh Hefner.
Paige had to laugh, further increasing the chief's ire.
      "What's so goddammed funny, Burner? Are you stoned out your goddammed mind?"
"Larry Tate, chief. Darren Steven's boss on Bewitched."

      "Yeah, that's a goddammed laugh riot, Burner. I guess I'll leave you, Mr. Tate and Dick Sergeant here to play the goddamn sitcom edition of Trivial Pursuit. My grandson has a Pop Warner game this afternoon."
      With that, Terry stormed up the stairs, sending the officers above scrambling to get out of his way, like Spaniards before a Pamplona bull.
      "You know," Brad the investigator said, "No one else would ever get away with fucking with him like that, in a million years."
"I know," Paige said, lightly smiling. "Dick Sergeant. Mheh."
      Brad shot her a look, but she knew him too well to be intimidated, and he folded, eventually matching and exceeding her growing grin.
      "Mr. Tate, here, was robbed this morning." He nodded to the open safe. "His wife, Sharon, is upstairs, equally dead."
      If Brad knew how unlikely the name of the wife was in conjunction with her husband's, he didn't let on, so Paige let it pass without comment. She did get a slight chill at the foreshadowing she had experienced earlier that week.
      Premonition? Jung called it 'synchronicity'. But in Paige's line of work, you had to be at least a little psychic to get the job done. At the end of the day, they were both labels describing the same phenomenon.
      Most scientists, almost all, when asked in public forums, said they didn't believe in extra sensory perception. At the same time, any scientist worthy of the title had at lest a passing familiarity with quantum communication.
      Quantum communication occurs at the subatomic level, and happens instantaneously, without regard to time or distance. Long since established as reality through procedures such as quantum linking, quantum communication is the exact same phenomenon as so-called psychic activity. It was a matter of terminology.
      In fact, ordinary people experienced it routinely, and weren't aware of it. Researchers established that dogs often wait for their owner's return several minutes prior to their arrival, no matter how randomized the patterns.
      It has also been established that average people can accurately predict who is calling or emailing them at a rate statistically more significant than random guesses.
      The subject interested Paige, but she didn't dwell on it. She just considered herself a bit more gifted than others, and paid close attention to

hunches, feelings and instinct, like any good detective does.
      She shook off this minor, insignificant coincidence and refocused on the job at hand.
      "Can I see the other one?" she asked. As they began to walk up the stairs, Paige nodded to the open safe. "Any idea of what was in there?"
      "No," Brad answered. "The usual things you'd kill for, I'd expect. Cash, jewelry, maybe stock and bond certificates. Maybe we'll catch them in a resale attempt on the back end. As it stands, we're stone cold. No leads at all."
      They emerged from the wine cellar and tasting room into the sunroom, blinking off the change in luminance.
      Paige followed Brad up a circular staircase, through the master bedroom, into a cedar closet bigger than her living room and kitchen combined. The smell of wood was nearly overpowering. She guessed it was a relatively new addition.
      It was the same scenario. Another body, another open safe. Viewing the corpse wouldn't tell her much that the blood splattered on the walls already hadn't.
"Who alerted the police?" Paige asked.
"The neighbors. Shots fired. We were here within ten minutes or so.
Erm, fifteen, tops."
"So they've been dead for two hours or so. Any servants here?"
      "No one. The back sliding door was open, front door locked. I guess the help has Sundays off."
      They walked down the staircase to the solarium again. "Can I get some coffee?" Paige asked. Wordlessly, the head of the Orange County investigative unit went off to fetch Paige a cup of joe.
      She opened the curtains of the sunroom to take in the view and think while she waited.
      Any doubts she had before about the property were instantly erased. There was a huge, intricately tiled pool immediately outside the windows. Bougainvillea bloomed, growing across a wooden bridge that spanned a section of it.
      That must be a bitch to clean, she thought idly. Bougainvillea, although beautiful in bloom or not, dropped flower petals like Dennis Miller dropped obscure references to eighteenth century poets and philosophers.

      Beyond the pool, an exquisitely landscaped mountainside extended down hundreds of yards toward a huge pond and waterfall at the bottom. Everywhere Paige looked exotic roses bloomed in colors exceeding those of the rainbow. Red brick paths extended in all directions, intersecting with brick platforms and staircases.

Chapter 10 - Departure
      When Jean and Maxxy finally resumed their academic life, after each had taken another day to recuperate, their heads were full of new approaches and ideas for their respective projects.
      Maxine had a more unified view of encapsulation, inheritance, and object-oriented programming in general. She had come to realize that polymorphism was conceptually related to pointers. With that realization, she broke through the remaining barriers that had kept her from completing her third-year coding assignments.
      Jean's new approach, in part, was based on the gram of superlab meth that came in the pharmacologically-cornucopic array he had gotten through Maxine.
      Psychedelics, LSD, anyway, didn't have the same mind-expanding effect on him as it did on Maxxy, as he'd done it plenty of times before. It was more of a refresher course, for Jean. He dropped once or twice yearly to clear the cruft from his head and refocus.
      But his routine for the next two weeks had expanded to include snorting a half-line of meth into each nostril at 5 a.m., before J.B. awoke. With that, Jean exhibited a razor-sharp focus on his writing and coding that had caused Beezy to casually remark that he thought Jean had contracted Asberger's Syndrome from a dirty keyboard.
      Jean failed to see the humor in this. This new batch of weed, as potent as it was, could barely cut through the intense focus and drive he was getting from the crystal methamphetamine. He still smoked it, but it wasn't until after 5 p.m. or so each day that it began to affect his mental state, making him more relaxed and creative.
      But the upshot was that he had the energy and direction he had previously lacked, coupled with new ideas and approaches to both his doctoral dissertation and his code module.
      Early into his second week of crystal-fueled coding and writing, Jean found his projects essentially complete, more than a week early in the case of the Douglas Project, and two weeks before his doctoral deadline.
      He's taken an approach to his paper that had been arrived at via discussions with both Jbeez and the Professor.
      Essentially, his thesis paper had two different conclusive endings. The current paper was self-contained, but lacked the hard-hitting, wave- making impact he desired.

      It was enough to get his degree, he knew, but nothing Earth shattering. That was reserved for his alternative conclusions, which depended on results from the Douglas Project.
      Jean could hardly believe he was essentially done with school. His coding module had been checked in, and was winning accolades on the discussion list. It really was an exercise in artful minimalism.
      While writing it, he had kept in mind what Knuth said about premature optimization being the root of all evil. So he had focused on working code first, and then rewrote it with a new attention to speed and efficiency.
      The end result was that this critical import module was blazingly fast and efficient. Multi-threaded, it iterated through the .adm file un multiple passes, much in the way they were iterating through the genome itself. It was a small masterpiece of coding.
      And the speed at which it operated was critical, as the import module would be the bottleneck that couldn't be spread over multiple computers. Inadvertently, Jean had made his mark as a programmer before gained recognition as a genetic researcher.
      He'd even uncovered a subtle problem in the .adm file format, which could have potentially derailed the project and blown the group's scheduling.
      Flushed with success, he dialed Maxine. They'd spoken a few times, and met casually on campus to talk about coding issues, mainly, but they had yet to have another date.
      "Hi, Jeaner," Maxxy said before he spoke. Caller ID removed the element of surprise he used to enjoy in the distant past.
"Maxine, how would you like to buy me a steak?" Jean said.
"What a thoroughly post-modern concept. You're done?" she asked. "I'm done. Little-d done, but done nevertheless."
"Jean, that's great! Now you can stop neglecting me."
      In reality, Maxine had needed time alone to finish her projects as well, but had still craved the closeness they had shared prior to his recent flurry of work.
"I've missed you, too," he said.
"Well, since I'm taking you out, be ready to roll out at seven sharp.
I'll pick you up," Maxxy said. "Wear something low-cut." Jean laughed at this. "Okay, Ma. I'll be ready."

Beaming, he took his final code dump and semi-final draft to Dr.
Woodard.
"Jean!" Woodard mocked. "I thought you'd dropped out." "Heh. Sorry, boss," jean said. "I've been busy."
      To illustrate and accentuate this statement, he dropped one hundred and sixty-eight pages on his mentor's desk.
      "Is that all?" Dr. Woodard teased. "In my day great conifer forests were felled in order that my ideas should be borne."
"Prehistory," Jean teased back.
      He then produced a CD, and related the tale of his optimizations, his bug squashing, and other adventures in coding.
      "Impressive," was Dr. Woodard's response upon viewing the code module's demonstration. "Just in time, too. You look like hell, son."
      Jean grinned bashfully. "Yeah, I know. But I'm in recovery. And it was worth it. Soon, you and I will be colleagues. Peers."
      The professor smiled. "My boy, I am peerless. In academia, I am eternally the server to your client. But it's good to aspire."
      They both laughed at this. The prof had often told Jean that he thought Jean's talents exceeded his own in many technical aspects. Jean, however, was aware of his own limitations, and of Woodard's caliber, with his Sisyphean patience and penetrating insights.
      "Doc," he said when the joking ended and the office air once again grew serious, "I'm selling out."
      Woodard knew this meant Jean was going on to work in the private sector, a position he respected, but didn't fully approve of.
"I understand, Jean. Really."
      Jean looked relieved to hear this. Dr. Woodard's disapproval would have made the decision much more difficult.
      "Universities rarely provide high-performance sports cars, for instance. They tend to lag behind the tech of the day, sometimes by five years or more, save for isolated pockets where they invent it."
Jean nodded at the essential correctness of what the professor was
saying.
"Had I to do all over again, were I a much younger man, I would be
out there in the trenches with you."
      This statement surprised Jean. He'd always imagined Woodard a strict idealist, bound to university life by principles alone.

"You forget," he continued, "I acquired my PhD n my late forties.
You're what, twenty-nine?"
"Thirty-three," Jean answered.
      "A lifetime of difference in those two ages, my boy. I had a wife, a son of college age. My cocky, risk-taking days were long over, at that point." A wistful look clouded his eyes for a moment.
      "Plus," Woodard continued, shaking off his memories, "hot cheerleaders are rarely found in the halls of biotech firms."
      Jean had to laugh. Many a coed had come to Woodard in low-cut blouses and skirts, seeking an easy way out, only to find themselves given hours of rigorous private tutoring. They either picked up the material, or they changed majors. Either way, Woodard was constantly treated to spectacular displays of feminine beauty.
"Do you have any prospects?" he asked.
      "Well, I need to work on my C.V. and resume, but I do have a few firms I'd like to work for. Mostly out west."
      "Am I right to assume a glowing letter of reference would aid you in your quest, good sir knight?"
      "I,	sir,	would	like	nothing	more,"	was	Jean's	reply.	He	left Woodard's office with a head brimming with possibilities and potentialities. He went back to his room intending to start work on his work-
related documents, but instead lay down to rest his eyes, and slept until five-thirty.
      Jean awoke with a start, disoriented. He never slept during the day. Idly, he remembered Dr. Woodard's talk about age, and academia versus private practice.
      Then he remembered he had asked Maxine to dinner to celebrate, and rushed to get ready.
      Seven p.m. and Maxine both found him downstairs in front of his building, dressed to the nines.
      Maxine pulled up to the curb in her Charger, Above The Law's 'Livin' Like Hustlers' on the booming system.
      They exchanged smiles as Jean got in. Before he'd gotten his seat belt on, she'd mashed the gas, slamming him back into his seat. He let the seat belt go, and it retracted back into its holder to his right.
      "I hope you like American food," she eventually shouted over the stereo. Jean noted with irony when they'd arrived that Outback Steakhouse

was ostensibly Australian, but he knew what she meant.
      When they walked in the door, Jean noted that they by-passed the patrons waiting for a table, and were immediately escorted to a back booth, already populated with drinks, salads and appetizers.
      "Two can play the game," she said simply at this. Tables were clearly turning.
      Jean ate and listened, occasionally prompting Maxine for more information regarding the end of her third year in school.
      Eventually, she'd exhausted her store of new information as they'd simultaneously depleted the initial banquet of food. Jean looked around for a menu, only to see the wait staff approach in pairs. Two removed their empty plates and refuse, and two more replenished their drinks and brought entrees.
      When they'd left again, as quickly as they came, Jean found before him a sizzling New York strip, home fries, a baked potato, and twenty-four large deep-fried shrimp on an over-sized platter between them.
      Maxxy had a filet mignon wrapped in bacon, and steamed California vegetables.
      "Post-modern indeed," Jean remarked as they dug in. He was entirely unused to both the attention, and from a woman taking charge. But, coming from Maxxy, he rather enjoyed it.
"Is there a problem?" she asked grinning, as she bit a large shrimp in
half.
"Not at all, Maxine. But I find you're entirely unique in all the
world."
"I could have told you that," she said, "had you asked."
      "I pretty much already knew it," was his reply. "This dinner date just confirms it."
      When it came time for dessert, Jean knew they'd have to discuss their future, whether together or apart.

Chapter 11 - R & R Part Two
      Paige estimated that the property was some seven to ten acres in size. Even for the ultra-rich, that large of a property was extravagant in California, much less in Lemon Heights. She considered the upkeep requirements of such a property.
Brad returned with an oversized mug, steaming with some exotic

blend.


"I hope cream and sugar is alright," he said.
"As long as there's caffeine, my man." She took a sip, but it was a

bit too hot, yet. "So, what did a search of the property yield?"
      "Uh, nothing, yet." He paused and said, "We haven't looked, actually."
His tone suggested he'd never even considered it, until now.
      If Paige had had coffee in her mouth, she would have spewed it back out in comic fashion. But she resisted the urge to go ballistic.
      "You haven't searched the property yet?" she spat, instead. "The killer could be on the goddamned property right now, goddamnit."
Maybe the Chief had rubbed off on her a tad.
      Paige stormed out of the room, looking for the backdoor exit to the property, with Lt. Brad Pittman in tow.
      They stepped into the kitchen, and exited through the sliding glass door the killer assumedly used to enter.
      On the brick patio surrounding the pool, Paige scanned the property trying to decide which rambling path to follow first. On instinct, she headed for the garages, still patently ignoring Brad at her heels.
      Finding the first side entrance unlocked, they entered the four-car structure and turned on the overhead lights.
      What they found was an array of lawn care equipment, a battered El Camino, and three dead Mexicans.
      Paige produced a handful of evidence baggies and a pair of gloves, seemingly from nowhere. "Write this down," she snapped, and began to retrieve their wallets.
      Being illegals, there were no driver's licenses, but there were I.D. cards and various documents attesting to their respective identities.
      The biggest and oldest was named Jose Blanco, and the youngest and smallest of the bunch, apparently his younger brother, was Salvador.

Between them lay a Miquel Aguillera. All three had been shot, execution- style, in the head.
"Fuck," Brad said.
"Nice work, Lieutenant," Paige said.
      Within ten minutes, Brad had left Paige in charge and sped off to the nearby barrio where the murdered men resided to interview and inform their families.
      Obviously, Brad had botched things so far, and was trying to get a handle on the situation.
      Paige needed to think, having little confidence in the investigators she was supposed to be working with.
      She left the garage to Brad's team of forensics evidence people, knowing that she had the most important clues already. Details such as ballistics evidence generally only mattered in court.
      As it stood, there were still no suspects. Thanks to Brad, they had lost an hour's lead or more.
      An idea was forming in Paige's mind, but it wasn't there yet, and stubbornly wouldn't come. She decided to walk the property.
      The paths crisscrossed the hillside, following the contours of the land horizontally, and up and down the mountain, alternating between steps and landings.
      Paige absentmindedly admired the roses as she strolled about. She looked beyond the pond and waterfall and saw unmarked cars visiting the pop star next door, who had undoubtedly phoned in the initial report of gunfire.
      She briefly considered heading that way, but thought better of it. Her gut feeling was that the solution lay elsewhere.
      Paige eventually came upon a landing with a four-person swing, where two couples could sit facing each other in the cool of the evening and relax.
      Settling in to consider the situation for a while, Paige produced her sneak-a-toke and lighter from her lefthand pocket. A few hits and ten minutes later, she got back up, refreshed, and continued her survey of the property.
      At the upper left corner of the property she walked up a miniature reproduction  of  San  Francisco's  Lombard  Avenue,  interspersed  with

flowering clumps of hydrangea. From the new vantage point, she could now see the remaining areas to explore.
      The waterfall looked interesting, particularly seeing the large, colorful Koi fish that populated the huge manmade, split-level pond. But she wasn't here to sightsee, and it seemed to offer nothing beyond that.
      At the opposite end of the pond was a lakehouse-type building, complete with a dock and paddleboat. Such a languorous life of luxury the retired couple must have lived. Paige hoped they had enjoyed what they had when they were alive.
      Leading away from the pond and lakehouse was the gently curving driveway Paige had come in on. She headed in this direction, initially with the intention of following it back up the slope to the garage to check on the rest of the investigation. But something made her turn in the other direction, instead.
      It was a good five minute walk all the same. She passed under a grape arbor, with its yielding fruit framed by flowering Wisteria vines, past a minigrove of lemon trees, dodging the automatic sprinklers that chose to turn themselves on as she passed.
      When she had reached the bottom of the hill, Paige did allow herself to stroll along the massive Koi pond, with its pussy willow, pampas grass clumps, and spotted orange and white carp.
      After briefly inspecting the exterior of the locked lake house, Paige began her trek up the driveway, which seemed to be a quarter mile long or better, uphill all the way. With an estate like this, she thought, she'd have no need for a gym.
      But behind the lake house, Paige saw something that caused her synapses to twitch. She called Brad.
"Investigative Services, Lt. Brad Pittman speaking."
      "Brad! How's it going? What did you learn? Are you still with the families?"
      "Yeah, Paige. We didn't learn much. All three worked for the Tates, tending their property six and seven days a week. The families are distraught as well as scared, being illegals. We sort of wrecked their Sunday, in more ways than one."
"Give me you location, I'm coming over."
      Paige was familiar with the area. At the base of the small mountain that was Lemon Heights was a school reserved for the children of the elite

who lived there. A mile past that, to the right, was a street perpendicular to the one she was traveling on which demarked a different territory altogether.
      Children who lived beyond this cross-street attended a different school, mixed race and heavily Spanish speaking. Here were the cramped and squalid apartments that housed the servants of the wealthy.
      Paige pulled up to see that once again, the ostensible best her division had to offer had mishandled the situation.
      The parking lot of the ghetto apartments was full of unmarked cars and police cruisers, parked askance, this way and that, lights flashing, doors open in clear violation of basic procedures.
Brad was awaiting her arrival, no doubt hoping she'd save the day.
She brusquely told him to bring her to Jose's wife.
      The woman was a squat, sturdy and stout specimen with dark black hair, indicating a heavy mix of Aztec Indian blood.
Paige began, "Lo siento..."
      And with that, the woman burst into tears. Empathy for the distraught wife and mother found Paige comforting her as she sobbed and heaved a second time.
      Five minutes after the woman, Rosa, she learned, had regained her composure, Paige had the information she needed.
"There," Paige pointed, "Apartment eight."
      The gung ho uniformed officers surrounded the building, made the necessary announcements, and then kicked in the door.
      She knew no on was home, particularly because Rosa had described the car of the two men she sought, which was conspicuous in its absence.
      But after they cleared the premises by conducting a room-to-room sweep, Paige already had enough evidence to convict.
      The careless killers of the Tates, whether by accident, or because it had little value to them, had left behind an inventory sheet from Mrs. Tate's safe.
      On that single sheet alone, nearly two million dollars worth of jewelry was listed.
      When the initial excitement had died down Paige gave Brad the names of the suspected thief-killers, their vehicle make and model, and even a partial plate number extracted from Rosa's memory.

      He issued an APB, and at Paige's behest alerted San Diego authorities, and INS agents working the Mexico-California border station south of San Diego, the busiest in the country.
      She phoned the chief and asked him to meet her back at the Tate's property.
Paige had stopped her car in the driveway, engine idling, to await
arrival.
When he pulled up behind her and honked, she motioned for him to
follow her down the hillside. They drove past a guesthouse, with its adjacent vegetable garden, passing between the garage and a two-story pavilion, a building so large they'd all somehow failed to pay it any attention, whatsoever.
      The chief was lacking his usual sturm und drang, the blustering rage that was uniquely his own.
"Sorry to call you back over today, Chief," Paige began.
      "Not a problem, Burner. The little motherfuckers were losing, anyway."
      Paige had to grin at this. She could imagine the chief at the sidelines, watching ten year olds playing a child's version of football. "Run, goddamnit!" she heard him yell in her mind, "Throw the goddamned ball!"
      "I had other things we needed to discuss, or I wouldn't have bothered you."
"First, tell me how you figured this one out," the chief demanded.
      Paige nodded her head toward a pallet of new red bricks, a pile of sand, a concrete mixer, and another pallet of Easycrete mortar mix, covered with visquine.
      "Brick layers, boss," Paige said. She then turned and pointed up the hillside. "Look at the sheer volume of bricks up there."
      There were enough steps, paths, and landings made of red bricks to build five schoolhouses, it seemed.
      "These paths were an ongoing project, and the represent years of work. According to the wife of one of the victims, her husband's cousin and his helper laid most of these bricks over the past three years.
      The chief tried to imagine employing two fulltime bricklayers for years, and could not.
      "So, this guy killed some of his own family?" the chief asked rhetorically.

      "If they had killed Rosa, the wife, we'd have no leads to follow right now. And I suspect she's the one who told them all about the jewelry and valuables, innocently enough. She was the Tate's housekeeper."
"Well, I'll be goddamned," was all the chief could add to this.
      Paige then spent the next forty minutes recounting the day's events, her focus not on the case itself, but on the myriad of ways it was mishandled.
When she was more or less done, the chief's cell phone rang.
      "They got the sorry motherfuckers," he said, covering the mouthpieces with his hand for a moment. "Do your job, goddamnit!" he snapped into the phone, and disconnected the call.
      "They never made it to the border. They were already so fucked up on beer and cocaine they got pulled over north of San Diego."
      "I think that's sweet," Paige said mirthfully. "Anyway, I know you like to keep abreast of your operations, chief. I'll see you in the morning."
      As she turned her car around to leave, the chief considered how much easier his life would be if Paige headed up the Investigative Services Division.

Chapter 12 - Departure, Part Two
      Once again, Maxine appeared to read Jean's mind. "So, what are you doing after graduation?" she asked.
"Marrying you," Jean almost blurted out impulsively.
      "I'm not sure," he said noncommittally, instead. "I'm going to shop around my curriculum vitae."
      "In the wide world of Alabama genetic research?" she teased. She had him, there.
      "There are one or two firms here worth considering," he said, "but they're mostly in the northeast and out west really."
      "So when are you leaving?" there was a quality in her voice between acceptance and heartbreak.
"Maxxy..." he said.
      "Jean, I understand, really. I'm not staying in no damn Alabama neither. I just had to get out of L.A. for a few years. My fam is there, and L.A.'s in my blood."
      "But that could mean a year without you." He said this as if to himself.
"And a year without you," she reminded him. They both considered this.
"I could stay," he said, finally.
      "No, you can't," she replied. "You'll have a hard time starting a career with 'Jim Bob's 'Bama Hog Farm and Gene Splicing' as your first genetics job."
      "A career's not all that matters in life, Maxine. And for the first time, Jean realized and understood this. She was handling it better than he was.
      "Well, you've worked too damn hard for that," she said. "Besides, I expect more from a potential husband of mine."
"I was thinking the same thing," Jean said. "We'd make quite a

pair."


"Oh, Jean. We already do. The software we could write..." "...the babies we could make," he finished.
"It's funny you should say that. Do you know the prevalence of

unwed teen births in L.A. County?" "No," he had to admit.

      "Sixty-four percent. But in my neighborhood, it runs more toward ninety-eight percent. I dodged more than one kind of bullet when I left there. I would be dead, in Sybil Brand, or I'd have someone's bastard kids. Some things are worth waiting for, Jean. I do want kids, but not L.A. style."
      Jean considered this. "So where do we go from here?" he asked sincerely.
      "Well, I think you go west. I'd never cut it in the northeast. Too damn cold. Too damn east. That's why I'm matriculating here in the south. It's full of rednecks, but also a lot of good folks. And it's warm. We'll hook up again in a year."
"You'd wait that long for me?" "You'd better wait for me," she said.
"Of course," Jean said. "I love you, Maxine."
This time she returned his sentiments. "I love you, too, Jean."
      They both paused, as if absorbing the gravity of the matter. Eventually, it was Maxine who broke the silence, returning to business as usual.
      "This is my uncle, Pookie," she said, handing him a phone number. "Uncle Pook used to be a lieutenant in the Crips," she said, as casually as if she had said he was a plumber. "He can get you anything you want in the valley."
Jean accepted the gift without comment, and put it in his pocket. "Ever heard of a rap group back in the day, white dudes called Third

Bass?"


Jean had to admit he had not.
"Well, they talked a little shit about MC Hammer, of all people, on a

record. Hammer paid Mike Conception to put a hit on them boys."
      "But the kids, over-privileged New York Jew kids, really, didn't take it seriously. Their people paid off the hit, but they still almost got smoked in the Beverly Center Mall. My uncle Pook saved their asses. He was nineteen then, and already a ghetto vet."
      She took a sip of coffee. "He's retired, now. Still affiliated. But no longer in active duty."
"You make it sound like the military," Jean commented.
      "It is, really. There's a lot of street rabble and wannabes, but the core of the organization is tightly-knit and cunning."
"You're the realist thing in Alabama, Maxxy," he said.

"Maybe so," she replied.
"How are you going to be with senior year?" he asked.
      "I'll be ok. We'll still be in touch, right? If I get in a bind, don't think I won't ask for help."
      "You'd better," he said, echoing her admonition from earlier. "This feels like goodbye."
      "It's goodbye for now, Jean. Otherwise I'll try and make you stay, or I'll want to leave."
      She stood to go. "The meal's paid for. You just go out there and make me proud. Ok?"
She bent over and kissed him on the cheek, turned and walked away.
It was all he could do to not call out to her, to implore her to come back.
      He sat and brooded over events for a while, nursing his coffee and cheesecake. She had certainly commanded the situation. He considered how businesslike, how martial her manner of handling things was.
      Ultimately, he liked it. They both had a lot to look forward to, and their next few weeks were cleared for school, and in his case, a job search. She'd spared them both a lot of back-and-forth juggling of complex emotions and soul searching.
      Jean's mind wasn't on school when he got home. He went to bed and dreamed wildly of Maxxy until he fell asleep.
      The next morning, his head was clear. He proceeded to get fogged and caffeinated, his intention on finishing his paper so he could get on with relocating to California.
      Since he hadn't checked on the project the night before, he did this first. According to the announcement listserv, not only had Douglas compiled, but they had gone live.
      Already, hundreds of PCs around the world were iterating through DNA sequences, evaluating possible patterns, and tagging some for human evaluation.
      The project was a success. Even without the results they ultimately sought, they had created a DNA-sequencing supercomputer, a Beowulf cluster that would someday soon change the face of medicine and biology.
      And Jean was at the heart of it. He knew, as the number of participants grew, their chances of detecting second level encoding increased exponentially.

      Jean set about revising his paper. He had no compelling reason to leave his room anymore. He also had to finish off his stash, as he couldn't take it with him, and had to at least consider the possibility that he could be drug-tested as a condition of employment.
      The next two days were a flurry of smoking and writing. Just as he'd felt he'd completed his final revision, new results had been published to the Douglas Project mailing list.
      The first level two sequences were beginning to take shape. The project now had quantifiable results, aside from the successful implementation of the software model. This led to a massive revision of his paper. Now, Jean felt he had a body of work worthy of a PhD.
      Satisfied, he submitted his paper, along with the proper application and requisition fees, to the committee that would ultimately decide his fate.
      Dr. Woodard was a member of that committee. As badly as Jean wanted to see him, he felt it improper, this close to their decision, to meet with him.
      Jean still had a few other loose ends to tie up. He packed what few belongings he wanted to keep, and shipped them to a prepaid storage center in L.A.
      Biotech firms littered the west coast, but he was determined to use Los Angels as his base of operations, no matter where in California he eventually landed.
      He made a further revision to his C.V. and resume, creating several versions each uniquely tailored to attract the attention of specific types of companies.
      When he was sure Jimbrowski would be away for hours, Jean felt it was time to dispose of something else.
      He took a small foil packet from his dresser, a remnant of the now empty duffel bag. In it was a tiny clump the size of a pinhead, DMT. He'd never done it before, but knew what to expect, more or less.
      DMT came from two places that he knew of: the human brain, and the roots of the sensitive plant of Hawaii. It was a psychedelic that gave the experience of an eight-hour acid trip compressed into thirty minutes.
      Fifteen minutes of hardcore tripping followed by a fifteen-minute come down period. You could do it on your lunch hour, in theory.
      It was claimed to be an even more spiritual experience than LSD, which was difficult for Jean to imagine. One of his heroes, a researcher

named McKenna, claimed the experience was otherworldly.
      He put the chemical speck on the end of a needle, held it under a glass hanging over the edge of the table and lit it in the same manner as one would smoke hash.
      He watched the smoke rise, filling the tumbler, hesitated for a moment, and then inhaled.
      Jean sat back on the floor against his bed, and for the next twenty minutes, left his body.
      He felt himself rising, slowly at first. He looked down and saw himself sitting on the floor, cross-legged. He saw each detail of the room from an impossible perspective, in the manner of DXM and other disassociatives.
      Jean then became a creature of pure light. He began to accelerate, upward and outward, hurtling through the cosmos. He careened past solar systems, then galaxies. His perspective grew as the universe shrank.
      Soon, he was moving so fast, in a universe so vast, it was as though he was not moving at all, but floating. He observed nebulae. He could see the gravitational curves of space, the pull exerted by massive clusters of stars, acting in concert.
      Jean learned what some cosmologists had maintained was true. Black holes emitted light and energy. Wide bands of understanding filled his mind.
      Astrology, which he'd always dismissed, was essentially correct. The stars and planets exerted an influence on our development; their positions at the times of our conception and birth influenced our personality types and abilities.
      Suddenly, he was falling upward, and growing. He nearly panicked, not out of fear, but because he didn't want to return to Earth. But he thought of Maxine, and his work, and accepted what was happening with passive understanding.
      He continued to travel up, rotating. Soon, Jean was spiraling through a double helix, the proteins each color-coded for easy identification.
      He saw, with his own eyes, second and third layer encoding. He had a glimpse of a fourth layer, and had the impression that it was extraterrestrial in origin.
      Suddenly he was growing. He watched the DNA strand shrink, and moved past shrinking cells, arteries, veins.

      All at once, he had expanded to fill his own body. He had traveled the universe, and had never left his dorm. All of existence was within him.
      He sat for a long time, far longer that the prescribed come down period. He had a lot to think about.
      Finally, he got up and took a shower. He needed contact with Earthly things: water, fire, air, soil.
      The feeling of being from beyond was vaguely unsettling. He wondered if he were somehow alien, or if the experience had made him so.
      Jean grabbed his car keys, and went to the park for hot dogs. He had to feel the sun, the grass, the wind. He needed to feel mortal again.

Chapter 13 - Paige A Go-Go
  Paige's next few weeks were relatively unexciting at work. For whatever reason, strange murders occurred in clumps. She suspected the influence of the moon. She did a lot of support work on more standard cases, and found herself bored. Your average criminal, Paige decided, was decidedly uncreative when it came to homicide.
        She decided to cash in some of her vacation time. The chief was unusually supportive.
        "You can't take a goddamned vacation, goddamnit! If these inept assholes encounter a case that requires actual detective work, they freeze up like goddamned Eskimo pies!"
      "Terry," she began, "I can, and I am. We're talking two weeks max, out of an accrued nine weeks of vacation time I have. I'd like to cash out the remaining seven weeks."
      "No problem, goddamnit. Do you want that in small bills?" The chief was fuming.
      "Chief," she switched gears. "Things are slow right now. Statistically, this is our off-season. Which is why I'm so insufferably bored right now. I need to get out and recharge my batteries."
      "Burner," he huffed, "When you get back, we're going to have to seriously discuss your role in this organization."
      She walked out of Terry's office on tiny clouds. It was the first time Paige could recall such a feeling of freedom. She had always thought it was work that made her happy. She was beginning to realize it was instead adventure, and the unknown.
      She went home at the end of her shift and packed her bags. She left her smoking accessories, naturally, but did pack Ms. Kitty.
      Then she booked a one-way flight to New Orleans for the next morning. She spent the evening smoking and chatting with Bryce, and went to bed forgoing her usual evening session of cat-on-cat violence.
      Paige had always wanted to see the deep South. In her mind, it was the polar opposite of California, and that notion turned out to be one hundred percent correct. She had a loose itinerary in her head, but decided that she would basically play it by ear.
      New Orleans was filthy and beautiful. From the moment she entered the airport, she felt she was somewhere exotic like Istanbul. People moved with a languid slowness that made the entire city seem out of time.

      The organic feel of New Orleans, even at the airport, made L.A.'s filthiest streets seem positively sterile by comparison. It was unlike any city she had ever encountered.
      She rented a cherry-red Dodge Charger with unlimited mileage. The rental chain's agreement allowed her to return it at any outlet for an additional charge. Money was no object where her pleasure was concerned.
      She went to her room at the Radisson near the French Quarter, checked in, and got prepared for her first night out on the town in ages. But this was no ordinary town.
      The spirit of Mardi Gras was present year round. Unlike most cities, public drinking was tacitly permitted. Many bars had areas on the street side of the buildings where you could purchase massive go-cups filled with hand grenades, hurricanes, daiquiris, beer, or any other liquor you desired. As long as it wasn't in a glass container, you could drink freely on the streets of New Orleans.
      It was still daylight when Paige exited her hotel, looking rather sumptuous in attire that was decidedly more racy than her normal tastefully hot business wear she wore for work. She walked past Jax Brewery toward the Quarter, and turned right to take in the sights of the river.
      The Mississippi took her breath away in a manner that the Pacific Ocean had long since lost the ability to do.
      A bridge, far smaller and less impressive than the suspension bridges of San Francisco, nevertheless held a captivating charm of its own. It was nearly anachronistic, in her mind, as it spanned the rushing waters.
      The river seemed a mile wide, and was a model of maritime activity. Great hulking barges traveled up and down the waterway in a ballet the belied their massive weight, pushed along by tugboats that brought to mind a Little Golden Book from her early childhood.
      The city lights were already beginning to be reflected by the water, and Paige made a promise to herself to view it at night before she continued on her journey.
      Where the river walk ended, she took some stairs down to her left, crossed a parking lot, and reentered the outskirts of the French Quarter. She was assaulted by the smell of fried dough, powdered sugar, and a most enticing coffee aroma.
      This was the world famous Caf� Du Monde, a landmark that no one failed to mention to her when extolling the virtues of New Orleans. It

looked unassuming, save for the fact that she'd never seen a simple caf� filled with two or three hundred people.
      Paige found the walkup window used for ordering and bought a cup of coffee and two beignets. It was pretty much mandatory when visiting New Orleans. She had to wait for a young married couple to leave with their strollered baby in order to sit and enjoy the snack. The coffee was stronger and more flavorful than any she'd had before, and the hot beignets were the perfect compliment. Paige was in heaven.
      As she sat and watched the way even the obvious tourists adapted to the easygoing stroll that seemed unique to the region, she admired Jackson Square Park, the centerpiece of the Quarter, and the great Catholic church that loomed behind it.
      When she finished, she took a stroll around the pedestrian-only streets that surrounded the park. New Orleans still had horse-drawn carriages for hire, and, Paige knew, a streetcar that still ran to the Desire housing projects. For a time, she felt she could stay in New Orleans forever.
      Along the fence outside of the park, artists plied their wares, doing sketches in charcoal, watercolors, and even oils. Many were quite talented.
      Opposite the artists were dozens of t-shirt and postcard shops, which provided a stark contrast, art and commerciality, standing in eternal opposition to one another, while at the same time in peaceful coexistence.
      As she passed a side street approaching the church, a tall, well- dressed, clean-cut black man with a newspaper called her aside trying to attract her attention.
      He unfolded the paper to reveal three flat purple buds. "Want to buy some Thai stick?" he asked.
      "Fuck off, cop," she said without pausing. Paige definitely knew better, and the undercover was ham-handedly obvious, besides. She would have enjoyed getting high, but it wasn't worth being arrested over.
      She admired the church, but didn't go inside. God was more apparent out on the streets than inside, she knew. Paige turned left again past the church, and took another, doubling back a half-block to walk through Jackson Park. A looming statue of Andrew Jackson on horseback dominated the landscape, which was ruled by pigeons.
      As she neared the exit to the street, a middle=aged Rasta, whom Paige imagined she had read about in a Tom Robbins novel, appeared next to her as if from nowhere.

"Welcome to New Ohlans, dere, sister," he said, shaking her hand.
      Before Paige could react, he was gone again. In her palm was a large two-gram block of hashish.
      Paige looked around casually, and put this item of interest in her purse. She left the park and was once again back on the street Caf� Du Monde was on and thought, Jah really does move in mysterious ways.
      She walked alongside the waiting teams of horses, where drivers in tophats solicited her for carriage rides. Maybe next trip, she thought. But not alone, for sure.
      At the end of a block, she heard music that fully got her attention. It was a bar called The Matador. On stage inside were some twelve black musicians, young UNO students, by their looks.
      Their extensive horn section dominated the music, in the grand New Orleans heritage. But at intervals, one or another of them would take the horn from their lips to release a funk-charged rap in the old school traditions.
      Paige ordered two Heineken Lights, and sat, enthralled, for over an hour. When they had finished their set, she noticed she had barely started her second beer, so she finished it, used the somewhat dingy restroom, and exited.
      She decided to follow her impulses, and wander off the beaten path a bit, buoyed by a bit of alcohol.
      For a few blocks, the streets grew darker, and were unpopulated. Eventually, she began to see people, and hear pulsating jungle, breakbeat and techno coming at her from various side streets.
      She followed her ears, but also her eyes, as she spotted women in twos and threes down one particular street, which, in New Orleans, were little more than claustrophobic alleyways at times.
      Paige knew the men in this particular area of the city would have zero interest in her.
      She entered a club named Ruby Fruit Jungle, and Paige realized what she was here for. The dance floor pulsated with sweating dykes, femmes, lipstick lesbians, and women who refused to fall into archetypical stereotypes. A few wouldn't be out of place driving a minivan of kids to soccer practice.
      She ordered a Coke and another Heineken Light. She then went into a bathroom stall, after dumping our the coke and washing the can out in the

sink.
Using her penknife, Paige constructed a crude pipe, complete with
carburetor. She broke off a quarter of the hash block, and proceeded to get very high. Ordinarily, she would never smoke out of aluminum, but this was an emergency situation. And she was on vacation, after all.
      The same was true of smoking in public. But a gay club in any city was pretty safe, and in New Orleans, doubly so. She downed her beer, stashed the hash, and ditched the pipe.
Paige felt like dancing.
      Gay clubs weren't only the most permissive, least judgmental places to party, they also had the best music.
      She got down to Lords of Acid, Femme II Femme, Definition FX, Peaches, Junior/Senior, KMFDM, and a ton of other great acts she remembered from her checkered past. It was some sort of retro night, she ultimately decided.
      At some point, Paige found herself dancing with a blonde about her own height, who was forty pounds heavier, thirty of which seemed to be her tits. The encounter rapidly turned from a dance to something more.
      The girl motioned to someone behind her that Paige couldn't see, initially.
      She found herself bookended by two gorgeous women that night. The friend of the chesty blonde was tall and willowy, with an ethereal wispiness about her, and short red hair.
      Eventually, the three sat down for drinks in a back booth, where the music was a decibel lower, and was almost conducive to conversation.
      The short blonde, it turned out, was named Eve, and the tall, slinky redhead was Pam. They tried to talk as best they could, but after a round of drinks, decided to go outside.
      Pam and Eve held hands and kissed, taking pains to not make Paige to feel like a third wheel.
"Do y'all get high?" Paige asked.
      "Doesn't everyone?" Eve winked. Eve, Paige decided, was the decision-maker of the two.
"I have a little hash at my hotel," Paige said, making the next move. "We have some dank, too," Eve replied. All were fully cognizant of
the implications.

      They hailed a cab to the Radisson. A few bowls, joints and beers from the mini-bar later, and Paige was being treated to a stirring live sex act.
      Unnoticed for a time, Paige slipped out of her outfit, and into the king-sized bed. She focused her attention on Pam, who focused on Eve, who focused on Paige.
They went through endless variants and iterations that night. Ms.
Kitty, now forgotten, fumed with jealousy.
      When she awoke the next morning, the couple had absconded, leaving her a note with a phone number. "Call us next time you visit, Eve and Pam."

Chapter 14 - Road Scholar
      The following week found Jean in possession of a PhD in Biology, and several prospects for employment out west.
      The day before he was scheduled to leave, he met a final time with Dr. Woodard. His letter of recommendation was no small part of the reason he had received such lucrative offers.
      The fact that the Douglas Project was now a raging success certainly didn't hurt. New results were coming in daily as more varied DNA sequences were input, and the number of participants on the client side grew.
      Articles began to appear in science journals hailing the group's efforts. Jean was pleased to find himself singled out in IEEE Journal and Dr. Dobbs, due to high praise for his coding efforts from his colleagues.
      Dr. Woodard, much as Maxine had, spared him from unnecessary sentimentality. "Mr. Simmons, the University of Southern California is offering you a research fellowship, at my recommendation."
      Jean was shocked. He had no idea Woodard's influence was so far- reaching. The position was so prestigious as to alter his credentials once again, and give him new bargaining power with employers.
      "I'll be keeping an eye out for you in the trades," the professor intoned, expectation in his voice.
      After an hour or more of discussion, followed by farewells, Jean left the campus biology building, never to return. He was a free agent.
      It was time to hit the road. He drove his bike to a local jeweler, and spent considerable time searching for just the right engagement ring, on which he spent a considerable amount of money. He then waited an interminable amount of time at the DMV, waiting to perform a title transfer, only to find out he required the services of a notary.
      After another two hours of work, much of which time was spent standing in line, he had put his beloved Harley in the name of one Maxine Jackson.
      He drove to Maxine's building, making sure her car was nowhere in the lot. He locked the engagement ring in the rear compartment on the bike, and walked upstairs to apartment one thousand six.
      He placed the ignition and compartment keys in an envelope along with the title of what was now her motorcycle, and included a brief note.
"Have a great senior year, and I'll see you soon.

Love, Jean.
P.S. Check the trunk."
      It took some doing, but he managed to slide the envelope fully under her door. He lingered a few moments longer, and then walked back to his waiting vehicle, which was parked, fueled and ready to go.
      On a whim, he decided to track down Jimbrowski to say good-bye. He eventually found him in the union drinking lattes with other recent
M.A.s and Ph.D.s.
      J.B. saw him coming and leapt up to intercept him away from the table where his new, non-mutual friends sat.
"Beezer, I just wanted to say good-bye. I'm out of Alabama for

good."


"I can't say I'll miss you, Jeaner," he replied, half seriously.
J.B. stuck out his hand, and Jean accepted it, shaking it with firm

deliberateness.
"Well," Jean said, "look me up when you finally decide to come out
west."
"If I ever do, I will." James replied. "But Florida has a Disney
theme park, too. I'll probably retire here. Too much family for me to move."
"Fuck Florida," Jean said, grinning.
      "Yeah, pretty much," was Jim's final word on the matter. With that sentiment hanging in the air, the two former partners departed, ending a four-year working relationship that bore much fruit, little of it bitter.
      Jean began his trek down south, driving below or at the speed limit, in no hurry at all. He found he was becoming less impulsive now that he was no longer smoking pot, and the THC slowly left his blood stream.
      His coffee intake, however, was way up. He made a note to try and cut back on that, as well.
      He meandered down to the coast. I-10 was quicker and he'd have to take it eventually, but for now he wanted to drive the scenic route and enjoy his newly-won freedom.
      He reached the ocean as the sun was setting, and was treated to a spectacular view as the sun dipped below the horizon to his right.
      Briefly Jean wondered why he'd never taken time off for a trip to the coast before. He'd been so engrossed in his work, his head was up his

ass, he thought.
      Rather than recharge with coffee and press on, he opted to stop for the night. He checked into some Mom and Pop motel near the coast, and gave no wake up call.
      The next morning, Jean awoke at nearly ten thirty, checked out, and had a huge breakfast at the Huddle House restaurant nearby.
      It was such a nice day he spent an hour walking along the beach after he'd eaten, until the noonday sun began to get the best of him.
      The humidity and heat of the Deep South were as oppressive as the politics, and Jean was glad he had the sanctuary of the Charger windows and air conditioning. On the bike, he would have had to travel at night, he thought.
      Outside of Waveland, Mississippi, his attention was drawn to a motorcycle cop in the grassy median dividing the lanes of the coastal highway.
      As he turned to look, memories of his near arrest rekindled, he saw a Charger passing in the opposite direction. The body paint was the same color as his, driven by a woman whose hair matched it perfectly.
      Jean's emotions swirled with thoughts of Maxine, and his deep- seated loathing of police and their overlords. Cops weren't fully to blame, he knew. The real evils were committed in voting booths and legislative sessions nationwide.
      Sometimes Jean felt a dictatorship would be more honest and easier to deal with. Then, you'd more or less have a single person to blame, instead of a nebulous, many-headed hydra.
You'd also have a single enemy to kill.
      He turned north past Waveland and intersected with I-10, the artery that ran all the way to the West Coast.
      Louisiana roads were notoriously bad, and he wanted to minimize the distance traveled there. By sticking to I-10, he traveled in a straight line across the state, on the best roadway they had to offer.
      The interstate, particularly from Texas to Florida, was also a primary drug smuggling corridor, he knew, and was glad to not be holding for what felt like the first time since high school.
      Jean was tempted to stay the night in Lafayette and look up an FSU alumni he knew from the list who taught at UCC. Dixie Flatline was his

online 'nym. But instead, he pressed on all the way across the rest of the state, to Lake Charles, for the night.
      He knew if he and Dix got together, there'd be drinking and revelry, and Jean would probably get high, as well. The last thing Jean needed, at this point was to blow his detox efforts, or worse yet, get arrested in a foreign town for disorderly conduct.
      The next two days found Jean in Texas, where the heat and lack of variety in the scenery would have driven him mad, were it not for the audio books he'd downloaded and burned to CD.
      He was in awe at the prescience of Philip K. Dick, as he listened to 'A Scanner Darkly,' a dark, cautionary tale of drugs and police state machinations.
      Then he listened to Dick's 'Ubik,' which was about a man whose life seemed to be a dream, until he learned he was already dead, and was preserved on to the inside of a computer.
      Again, Jean was struck by PKD's foresight. The notion that we existed in a simulation was only recently explored academically, although it was a popular theme among some sci-fi authors. The writer of the paper he'd read placed the chances we were in a simulation at twenty percent.
      Past San Antonio, Jean listened to William Gibsons's 'Neuromancer' with guilt, having never read the classic, proto-cyberpunk novel in which Gibson coined the term 'cyberspace'.
      When he learned Dixie Flatline was a character in the book, a flatline construct, or a dead guy in a computer, he thought the chance of being in a simulation ranged from forty to eighty percent.

Chapter 15 - Arrested Development
      Having sated her need for carnality, Paige was free to explore the city without distraction. She began her day, once again, at the Caf�' DuMonde. New Orleans wasn't like Istanbul at all, she realized. It could only be France.
      The French, she knew, shared the same attitude toward work, and leisure, the same love of all things gastric and sensual. And they had left their indelible imprint on the city some three hundred years ago.
      Further up the street was a farmer's market. In New Orleans it was The Farmer's Market. It had the odd feel of a train station without trains. Virtually everything you can hope to find was on display for sale.
      There were small mountains of fresh fruit and vegetables, and Paige made note to stock up for her trip in the morning. Vendors had fresh shrimp, catfish and boiled crawfish, which Paige decided to try at lunch. They looked like tiny lobsters.
      There were Rastas with purple ribbons in their flowing dreadlocks, selling bolts of imported fabrics, silks, hemps, Kente' cloth. She approached a hippie chick in her late twenties selling beautiful pieces of handmade jewelry, and Paige knew she'd have to buy something.
      "Are you finding everything you need here in New Orleans?" the girl asked knowingly, glancing sideways at her apparent boyfriend, who sat disinterestedly reading an underground comic, looking like nothing so much as an updated Maynerd G. Krebbs.
      Paige knew instantly that the two did a little dealing on the side to supplement their income.
      "Yeah, I'm good, thanks," she said. "I'd like to hear about your jewelry, though."
      The girl's expression brightened, somewhat. The favorite subject of any artist was their art, an extension of themselves.
      "Well," she began, "These are all hand-made pieces, I do them all myself. The beads and whirls are made of copper from Argentina. I use hemp cords to string them so they're nearly impossible to break. This is amethyst, which is mined in North Carolina."
      Paige picked up and admired the light purple crystal as she continued. "These are jade, from the Orient, both China and Japan. The rough-hewn stones here are actually opal fragments, also from Japan."

      The jewelry was quite a change of pace from the gaudy diamond, gold and platinum trends that dominated the bigger world markets. She looked at the hand-labeled tags attached to the necklaces, and saw they were horrendously under-priced, with each selling for one quarter of what they would on the west coast, or less.
      "What about this section?" Paige asked indicating a few pieces off to the far left of the display table.
      "These," she said lifting one up to the light for Paige to admire, "are amber."
      The Louisiana morning sun was soft, and caused the bauble to glow a light yellow-brown.
"It's beautiful," Paige remarked.
      "Amber is crystallized prehistoric tree sap," the girl said. "They're a little more expensive because they have scientific value. Museums like to sell the ones with insects in them, if they don't put them on display."
      Paige remembered this from Jurassic Park, the Spielberg movie. She eyed the ones on the table, which seemed to be insect-free. "Do you have any like that?"
      "Well...actually," the girl said as she reached into a box beneath the fabric-covered table. "I do have one. I was thinking about keeping it. But you're pretty cool, and our rent is due."
      She handed Paige a necklace with a large, tear drop-shaped piece of amber hanging down at the bottom of the loop.
"I'm afraid it's forty dollars, though."
      Paige held it up to the light to reveal a tiny June bug encased in the dark, honey-colored stone. "Wow!" she said, duly impressed. "I'd love to have that. Are you sure it's for sale?"
      "Sure," the girl said. "I have a collection of them at home. Want me to put it on you?"
      Paige turned around and lifted her hair. The amber rode perfectly, right above her modest cleavage.
"Thanks a lot," Paige said sincerely when she turned back around.
She reached into her purse and produced a hundred dollar bill.
      "Oh, it's sort of early. I don't have much change, yet," the girl said upon seeing this.
"It's ok," was Paige's reply. "Keep it."

      The gratitude on the girl's face was heart-wrenching. "I can't do that," she said, "Let me go break it at the fruit stand."
"Keep it," Paige said more insistently.
      The girl said nothing, but looked at Paige with wonderment and gratefulness for a moment. "It looks great on you," she finally said.
      "I know," Paige said and smiled. "Thanks a lot. You two be careful." With that, she turned and continued her stroll through the market, happy to have fed a starving artist.
      Eventually, Paige's hunger got the best of her, and she headed across the street to Margaritaville, Jimmy Buffet's restaurant and bar right off of the quarter.
      Before she got to the bar, she knew she'd be having crawfish. "What's a good Louisiana drink?" she asked to bartender.
      "Hmmm," he said, apparently entirely used to questions posed out of the blue. "There's hurricanes and margaritas, of course. A bit fruity, as a lunchtime drink goes."
"Right," Paige said, "I'll have none of that," smiling. "There's the stereotypical mint julep, Scarlett," he said. "How clich�."
      "But, personally, I think the most authentic drink that summarizes the Louisiana experience, currently, would be the Abita Beers. Turbodog, maybe. There's a seasonal strawberry beer that I try to keep on hand for select clientele, there's Purple Haze..."
"That one!" Paige interjected. She handed the bartender a ten-dollar
bill.
"The lady knows what she likes," he said, returning a five across the
bar along with her opened bottle of beer.
      "Delicious!" she said after tasting it. "Can I get crawfish here?" Paige asked.
      "Can you? You can get five pounds of the biggest, tastiest crawfish in the state here. Spicy or very damn spicy?"
"Um, let's try spicy."
      "Let's get you a table, this could be messy," he said. Paige left the bill on the bar as the bartender led her to a prime seat where she could observe the activity on the street, and also people-watch the bar and restaurant patrons.
"I'll hook you up, my name's Chris."

      He was back in a flash, with another bottle of Abita. "This one's on me," he said demurely, and returned to his station.
      Within ten minutes or so, a waitress appeared with a mountainous platter of steaming crawfish, dotted with half ears of corn and boiled baby potatoes.
      "Y'all ever ate crawfish before?" the server asked. Paige looked around to make sure she was seated alone.
"No," she said, "but there's a first time for everything."
"Well, put yer napkin in yore lap. Break the tail off an peel it.
There's a little mud vein, don't eat that."
Paige realized she was referring to the creature's excretory system. "Then suck the juice out of the head. Put the shells on this other
platter. And enjoy."
      The harried waitress hurried off, as the lunch crowd was coming fast and furious.
      She tried to be neat about it at first, demurely breaking them open slowly, being careful not to make a mess. But soon enough, she had juice dripping from her hands, and it was all she could do to keep her chin clean, and prevent it from dropping into her lap.
      They did have the texture of lobster, and might even taste similar, except for the heavy taste of red pepper, bay leaves and onions, flavors that she wouldn't ordinarily consider applying to lobster. At any rate, they were delicious, and Paige ate almost all of them, and all of the corn and potatoes.
      Her favorite part was the fat surrounding the vein, and the savory mouthful of meat she got from the biggest ones. A girl could get used to this, she thought.
      She had to go to the restroom to clean up when she was finished. When she came back, her table was cleaned, and a hot cup of coffee, cream, and sugar awaited her. Louisiana folk sure were hospitable, it occurred to her.
      She sipped her coffee and considered the rest of her day. She decided to take a carriage ride, which was really a mini-tour, and get some ideas that way.
      She left a generous gratuity for the waitress, and after she'd paid her bill, went back to see Chris, the bartender.
"How was it?" he asked earnestly.
"Great, Chris, thanks so much for everything."

"Well, I'm glad you liked it," he said
      "And I wanted to thank you for the beer, too," she said, "That's some spicy stuff."
      "It was my pleasure, ma'am," he replied, and had to turn his back to attend to a new arrival at the bar.
In California, she might have considered "ma'am" to be insulting.
Here, she knew, it was a sign of respect having little to do with age.
      She stuck a ten in Chris's hurricane glass tip jar, and slipped away unnoticed.
      She approached the line of carriages from behind and assessed them as she walked slowly by, ultimately selecting a horse and driver wearing identical top hats festooned with a single white rose.
"Can I ride up front?" she asked.
      "Well," the carriage driver said, "I reckon I can suspend my prohibition for the interim you are in my presence, if you'll reveal to me the moniker by which you are known."
      "Paige," she said, "Paige Burner." And she knew she had found the driver for her. He reached his hand down and more or less pulled her up into the buggy's front seat.
"Where to?" he asked.
"You're supposed to tell me, I thought."
      "Perhaps, perhaps. But, multifaceted man that I am, I temper verbose dissertations on local history and geography with an expensive taxi service. That is to say, you can pay me extra to remain silent and ferry you to the destination of your choice. Within reason, of course. A sliding scale, both monetary and verbal, if you will."
      "I can't imagine anyone not wanting to hear you. You speak poetically," Paige said. "I just want an interesting, off-beat tour. But ending at the Radisson would be a bonus."
      "Smart lady," he said. Both inquisitive and pragmatic. And, fortunately for you, I do accept flattery as a gratuity."
      The driver, who she came to know as Dennis, brought her back and forth through various side streets surrounding the Quarter for over an hour. He kept up a running monologue that was part history lesson, part geography lesson and partly a philosophical treatise on existentialism.
      He seemed to know everything about everything, pointing out former and current brothels, notorious murder sites, both past and present.

Paige developed a sense of the politics of the area, from the 1800s onward. One fascinating aspect of his monologue was the dynamiting of the levee south of New Orleans in 1928, and the parallels between it and the Katrina disaster.
      When finally he arrived at her hotel, Paige felt she'd taken a college course on the city, conducted by an eclectic professor.
"What is there to do tonight that might interest me?" Paige asked. "Hmmm," he looked at Paige, as if assaying her. "I'd say the zoo
and aquarium, ordinarily, as you're obviously a woman of taste and culture, no doubt with a fond appreciation for animal life."
"I once wanted to be an oceanographer," she said.
      The driver ignored this, as if he needed no confirmation as to his accuracy.
      "However, you have a wild streak in you, a deep, yet hidden thrill- seeking nature. So, I could recommend the pedestrian House of Blues, or the historic Storyville Jazz Hall. In this particular instance, I invite you kill two birds with one stone and compensate me by way of accompanying me to a musical venue named Tipitina's tonight."
This request took Paige by surprise and she had to consider it.
Finally, she capitulated to his charm, wit and obvious intelligence.
"That sounds fun," she said. "Who's playing? No wait. Surprise
me."
"Oh, I expect you'll be surprised," he said. "I'll pick you up here,
out front, at eight sharp."
      He got down and helped Paige from the carriage, his large hand again engulfing her own.
      "Until then, madam," he said, and then signaled for his horse to begin moving again.
      Enchanted, she went up to her room, imbibed part of her dwindling stash of hashish, and pulled the neglected Ms. Kitty from her suitcase storage pocket.
      Otherwise, Paige knew, she's be going home with a strange man, breaking one of her cardinal rules.

Chapter 16 - California, Ho!
The drive was altogether more enjoyable once Jean got out of Texas.
The entire state bored him to tears, and seemed to have nothing to offer.
      New Mexico, with its many Indian reservations and famous military installations, held slightly more interest. He bought turquoise jewelry to send to Maxxy, and wished he could visit White Sands Proving Grounds and the base at Dulce.
      Dulce, New Mexico was long rumored to house a military installation that extended some seven stories or more underground, and was supposedly home to alien lifeforms.
      He did detour to Roswell, but was disappointed to find only cheesy gift shops and alien-themed diners, for the most part.
      There were multiple museums there, each purporting to tell the truth about the 1941 incident that occurred there.
      One was clearly an exercise in disinformation, but another held intriguing details Jean didn't previously know.
      He did find it odd that, Pre-Roswell, technology was mired at the vacuum tube level, and soon after, graduated to semiconductors and integrated circuits.
      Arizona was much more to his liking. He drove through the Joshua National Forest, which was entirely unlike any other forest in the world, filled with spiny Yucca plants instead of pine trees or redwoods.
      He visited the Great Meteor Crater, and was in awe of the mile-wide hole in the earth, and at the force and volume the space debris which created it must have held. Another meteor like that in modern times would spell disaster, he knew.
      He spent much of his time in Arizona at the Petrified Forest, and the Grand Canyon, which lay beyond it. He took a burro ride to the bottom one day, and a helicopter ride above it the next.
      When he felt he'd seen enough, he set out on his way again. He had also wanted to see Hoover Dam, but he knew he'd done enough sidetracking and sightseeing for this trip.
      California seemed stolid and pedestrian by comparison, with its identical towns and endless strip malls. What character it once possessed was plastered over with population growth and commerciality.
      Jean had job interviews up and down the coast, but he first made his way to the prestigious University of Southern California and accepted his

fellowship. It was a great honor, although there was no actual ceremony involved, as he had hoped.
      The details of being made a research fellow amounted to complete access to all of the universities facilities, and a monthly stipend of eight hundred dollars. In return, Jean's findings would be associated with the school.
      It wasn't quite as sweet of a deal as Benoit Mandelbrot once got from IBM, but a great honor, nevertheless. It would certainly help with living expenses until he took a position with one of the biotech firms currently courting him.
      He spent the day exploring the campus, and then decided to call Maxine.
"Jean! What took you so long to call?"
      "I'm sorry Maxxy. I did miss you. I was just on the road. How's the break going?"
"You've got a lot of nerve dropping that bike on me, you know." "Awww, the motorcycle was just a box for the engagement ring. A
delivery medium, to let you know I'm serious," he said.
      "Oh, you're serious, all right. Seriously crazy. I love it, though. It's a part of you here with me. And the ring, too."
"Does that mean you accept my proposal?"
      "Accept? Of course I do. I didn't think there was any question. I'm scared to ride the bike, but I'm not afraid of commitment."
      Jean's last traces of self-doubt concerning Maxine melted away as they spoke. He felt he'd gambled and won. They talked for nearly two hours, and finally agreed to call each other weekly for the duration of their separation, also making plans for Maxine to fly out next semester break.
      He traveled up the coast, starting in San Diego and venturing as far north as Bakersfield, which he felt was a desolate hellhole.
      Ultimately, he settled on D-Generation, a cutting edge outfit within an hour's drive of USC and L.A. They were hip, with a campus spirit in line with the best dotcoms in their heyday.
      They were interested in Jean's PhD research, and software development skills, in that order. He pretty much had free reign to pursue second and third level encoding, provided he kept the firm updated on his findings. His primary function, otherwise, was to oversee software development, with an emphasis on architecture concerns.

      Software engineering was an expensive process, and there was a steep curve associated with making changes or mistakes. The later changes were made or architecture mistakes were detected, the associated costs increased exponentially.
      So the company found Jean uniquely suited for the task, with his dual disciplines and track record of success in both fields, genetics and software development.
      Jean just liked the unrestricted lab access, and the relative freedom he had to conduct research. Between D-Generation and USC, he had everything a genome researcher could ask for. And he intended to use it.
      When Jean had settled in, both at work and at the university, which he visited nearly every weekend, he decided to visit Maxine's uncle. He eventually realized that drug tests in California were mainly for construction workers and people on probation.
      Half of his co-workers seemed to come to work lit, and took extended breaks. Being the boss to some of them, Jean didn't mingle or fraternize much, but was well-received, as many D-Gen employees were familiar with his work on Project Douglas.
      California's freeways were bad enough, but the inner city of L.A. was a harrowing experience. Parts of it were actually unmapped on his GPS unit, and he quickly realized why.
      Jean had always thought they were exaggerations, but L.A. ghettos really did look like a Snoop Dogg video. Sections fell to either blue or red plaid bandana-clad youth. Graffiti covered every available surface of houses, buildings, billboards and freeway walls.
      He was glad he came during the daylight hours, and even then, he drew stares and mean looks.
      Jean parked on the street in front of the house at the address given and knocked on the door. Maxine had a firm prohibition against talking on the phone where illegal business was concerned, and made it clear to Jean that this extended to her uncle, and to Jean himself, for that matter.
      A tall, gaunt black male of about thirty-five opened the door and ushered Jean inside.
"Mr. Pookie?" Jean said, feeling somewhat silly at the utterance,
"I'm-"
"Jean Simons. I know all about you. If you ever hurt my niece,
you'll get smoked, straight up." He looked Jean in the eyes, but Jean could

hear the seriousness in his voice.
      "Other than that, nice to meet you," he said, suddenly disarming and charming. "If Maxine loves you, you're fam. So what do you need?"
      "Well, I really need about a pound of hydro, so I don't have to bother you often." In reality, Jean was intimidated by both Pookie and South Central.
      "Indo, done deal. It'll be eight bills." This was four hundred less than Jean had ever paid in Alabama.
      Jean pulled out his wallet and put eight hundred dollar bills on Pook's coffee table, which Pookie ignored.
"Unlock your car," he said.
      Jean went to the window and chirped the alarm. Pookie dialed a number on his cell phone. "One pizza, extra crispy," was all he said into it, and hung up.
"Anything else?" Pookie asked.
"Well," Jean began, "There's this rainforest drug, it's an odd request.
But it's called ayahuasca, and it-"
      "It's pronounced aya-hooaska," Pookie interjected. "Celebrities like Sting and Tori Amos have taken guided trips on it in L.A. in the past year."
Jean couldn't help but look surprised, and Pook couldn't help but
notice.
"I live in the hood, but I'm not ignorant," he said. "I mean most of
these cats are, but I read." He pointed to an electronic bracelet on his ankle. "I have lots of spare time. I can get you some, actually. I never tried it. Tripping in the hood can be fatal. But give me two weeks. I'll have some people drop it off with you."
Jean reached to get his wallet back out, saying, "Wow! Thanks a
lot."
"Keep it," Pookie said. "This is on me. Call it an engagement
present."
Jean had no idea Maxine had told her family they planned to wed. "I'm really in love with Maxxy," Jean said, "I would never hurt

her."

fool."

"You best not," Pookie said, grinning, "That girl is a straight up "So how and when do I get the herb?" Jean asked.
"You already got it, my man. Drive safely."

"Thanks for everything, Pookie," Jean said, finally relaxing. "Anytime, cuz. But I do wish you didn't bring that red-ass car to my
house."
"Heh, I hear you." Jean said.
      There was an awkward exchange where Pookie extended his hand for a handshake, and Jean made a fist to give him a pound, and then each did the opposite.
      When they'd worked out these formalities, Jean was out the door, anxious to get home safely and smoke for the first time in nearly a month.
      Jean didn't speed, but neither did he dawdle. When he got home, the weed was the brightest green, stickiest herb he had ever encountered.
      A few weeks later, there was a break-through with the Douglas Project. Third layer encoding patterns were believed to have been detected. Jean went to his USC research lab to closely examine the latest second layer findings.
      When he was leaving campus that evening, he was approached by two well-dressed and immaculately groomed young black men, both as big as line backers.
      "Have you accepted Jesus Christ as you personal savior?" they asked in unison. Jean assumed they were Jehovah's witnesses.
"No, thanks," Jean answered.
One thrust a Bible into his hands, and they kept going past him. "Read it in the car, Pookie said," one of them called over his
shoulder.
      When Jean got in the Charger and sat down, he opened the leather bound Bible. The center pages had a square cut out of them, and inside was some dried roots in a Ziploc baggie, and two pages of instructions from Pookie on preparation and usage.

Chapter 17 - Rock for Light
      Paige napped, and when she awoke, showered and prepared for her final evening on the town in the Crescent City. She dressed conservatively, another shield to protect herself from the presumed wanton charms of the handsome stranger.
      She hadn't come to New Orleans to be swept off her feet, and so she simply resolved not to let it happen.
      By seven fifty-five, she was curbside, and soon heard the familiar clip-clopping	of	Rosie	O'Donnell,	Dennis's	workhorse.	She	hadn't anticipated him picking her up in his carriage, but neither was she surprised.
      Ever the gentlemen, he again got down and rendered her needless assistance with mounting the chassis of his conveyance.
      "So," she said as they turned off of the boulevard upon which her current abode resided, "Tipitina's, huh? I never heard of it."
      "You won't soon forget it," Dennis said. "You'll need this, I'd expect," and fired up a bomber joint of what Paige quickly determined to be Jamaican collie bud. He handed it to her without consulting her, or even looking at her, ever confident in his choices and actions.
Paige accepted it with the same surety of action.
      The twenty minute ride left Paige feeling quite nice, and they parked Rosie behind a two-storey nightclub near the levee, ringed with an eclectic looking crowd milling about outside. Paige saw dreads, mohawks, longhaired metal types, GQ college boys and even businessmen. Her interest was piqued.
"Aren't you afraid someone will bother or steal her?" Paige asked. "People know us, here," he said simply. "This is not Chicago. The
city is sort of an extended family." He looked at his watch as they walked in, nodding at the doorman. "Oh, good, the opening act is almost done."
Paige noted that Dennis didn't have to pay the cover charge or wait
in line.
The band on stage were white kids who played competently enough,
but were entirely derivative and unoriginal. She heard strains of Living Colour, the Pepper's, 24/7 Spyz and similar bands in their supposed original compositions.
      She understood why Dennis skipped their act. To be influenced was one thing, but these kids borrowed liberally, to put it kindly.

      "Come on," Dennis said, after buying Paige a bottle of Haze. "I want you to meet some people."
      He led her backstage to a dressing room that was a microcosm of the crowd outside, but with a heavier emphasis on the Rastas, about eleven people in all.
      "Darryl!" Dennis said, shaking the man's hand, and then offering a quick embrace. "How's the tour?"
      Paige expected a Jamaican patois to spill forth from the man's lips, and was surprised to hear the diction of a Yankee gentlemen.
      "It's good, man, you know? Except H.R he sort of flew off the handle and attacked the tour manager a few cities back." He nodded at a man with a slight afro sitting in the back on the room, wearing a bandage on the side of his face.
      "He sort of tried to bite his ear off," Darryl said. "No charges filed, Jah be praised."
      Dennis was nonplussed. "And where is Mr. Human Rights, at this critical juncture?" he asked.
      "He's is the can. Dr. Know is watching the show, and Earl's still at the hotel, or on his way. He's homesick. H.R. is on one of his 'no talking' kicks again."
      "That which goeth into a man defileth him not, but what comes out of a man's mouth," Dennis said.
"Exactly," Darryl said.
      At this moment, H.R. walked in, with a wide smile for Dennis. "Everyone out," the tour manager said, and the hangers-on back stage dutifully filed out.
      When they had gone, Dennis handed H.R. a brown paper-wrapped package that must have contained a kilo of weed. He threw it on a desk and cut it open, revealing the rich chocolate collie bud they had smoked earlier.
      H.R. produced a half sheet of newspaper and grabbed two fistfuls of weed. After a few practiced moments, he had the largest joint Paige had ever seen, but tapered into a cone-shape. It was a spliff of epic proportions.
      The tour manager wrapped up the remainder of the herb and left to secure it. Dennis helped H.R. to light it, and soon the air was thick with sweet, acrid smoke. H.R. appeared to swallow it as he drew on the cone, holding each hit in for what seemed like a minute or more.

Paige took several hits, but she couldn't keep up with Dennis and
H.R. She was thoroughly lit, and probably would have been so just from being in the room. She wondered if all reggae concerts were like this.
      Darryl wasn't smoking at all, and so he and Paige eventually excused themselves, leaving the two to complete their iron lung pre-show partaking.
      The opening act had finished, so people could finally hear each other speak again.
Darryl was feeling pensive and talkative. "I've got a bad feeling," he said.
"What is it?" Paige asked, concerned.
      "Not about tonight, New Orleans is always fine. It's about our new label, Maverick. As of last month, we now work for Madonna."
Paige was moderately surprised at how unlikely this seemed. "Rights has been saying she's the devil, and now maybe he's
correct. When she signed Bad Brains, we later found out she owns our names if we break our contract. That's how come my man got his ear nearly chewed off." He nodded toward their manager who was motioning for Darryl to get on stage.
      "Nice to meet you, enjoy the show, dere," he said, slipping in a tiny bit of the accent, as if to satisfy Paige's stereotype expectations. She later learned the group was from D.C and possibly Ethiopia, before that, but often visited Jamaica, where H.R. owned a home.
      Dennis emerged from backstage and found Paige. He brought her to the barricade, to the left of the elevated stage. "When the show starts, things might get a little crazy. I'll protect you, if so."
Paige had to wonder how crazy a mix of reggae fans could get.
      All at once, the band exploded, tearing into their first song with a fierce intensity. They didn't play reggae, but hardcore punk rock, with a metal edge and razor sharp precision. The crowd went wild.
      H.R. dominated the stage like a possessed lion, howling, snarling and sputtering, alternating with a most beautiful, melodic singing voice.
      Paige was treated to some of the best music she'd ever heard in her life. She thought that in a better world, the Bad Brains would be superstars, getting tons of radio play. Instead, they performed for five hundred people or so, each of which seemed to be die-hard fans.

      Devil or not, Paige thought, Madonna was extremely shrewd to sign them. She felt like she was watching history in the making.
      The crowd in front of the stage grew raucous, slamming and pogoing, but with none of the viciousness that often accompanied punk shows. When the sea of fans got too rough Dennis held the barricade with both hands on either side of Paige, keeping her from being crushed.
      Eventually, the band took it down several notches, and actually did perform a reggae song. When they did, Paige hoped Dennis would wrap his arms around her, but ever the gentleman, he did not, instead dropping his arms back to his side.
      They finished that sonic interlude and launched back into several short, intense punk songs. Paige was amused to hear H.R. say in one song, "Give me back my marijuana, give me back my marijuana!"
      All at once, the song ended, and the band had disappeared before anyone had noticed. The audience, thoroughly worked up, wasn't going to let it end just yet, and raised a chant "Bad BRAINS, Bad BRAINS!"
Finally, the band reappeared and a roar erupted from the crowd.
      "I gwan do one more song dere," H.R. said. "Dis for Dennis and de girl wit de red hair." He pointed to the couple at stage right and another cheer burst forth from the crowd.
      They rapidly counted to four and launched into the most intense song Paige had ever heard. She later learned it was called 'Pay to Cum' and was their signature track, dating back to the early eighties.
      The fans in front of the stage went nuts, in a literal frenzy of spiritual jumping and dancing. The energy was manic and electric.
      Paige happened to look to her right and saw a riotgrrl spin around and kick a metalhead to the ground with both feet, and wondered what that was about. She suspected someone had copped a feel, and the metalhead got the blame, right or wrong.
The song was over as quickly as it started, and with it, the show.
Paige wished they'd play another hour, but it wasn't to be.
      When their ears stopped ringing, Dennis asked her if she'd like to party. She was still very high, and said she'd have to pass. But it was a difficult decision. Dennis was a great guy, even though she could never seriously date a dealer.
      He seemed slightly disappointed, but not overly so, and offered to bring her home. Instead, she said she'd take a cab, and Dennis called one

from his cell phone. She thanked him profusely, and gave him a tight embrace.
      "You know where to find me," he said finally. "I'm always there." And with that, he was off to the night's party.
      Paige rode to the hotel in contemplative silence. She was leaving in the morning, and asked the driver to take her across the bridge and back before dropping her at the Radisson.
      The river at night was beautiful, of course, and the lack of moonlight made the lights reflecting off the water seem even brighter. When they turned back toward the city, viewed from up high, with the French quarter lit and the Superdome in the backdrop, Paige felt a twinge of regret at leaving.
      But she'd had a great time, and fresh adventures awaited. One thing she still did not miss was California and work. She'd hardly thought about it at all since she'd landed at the airport.
      She knew that would change, of course. But for now she had one foot in the Big Easy, and another out the door. She didn't have a firm itinerary, but she did have her next destination in mind.
      She crashed hard when she hit the bed, and huddled under the comforter for warmth and security, dreaming of settling down, some place, with someone. Her dreams were as vague as her future plans.
      In the morning, she got up, showered, and packed her bags, prepared for the next leg of her journey, which would be lengthy.
      She checked out, and drove her rental car to Caf� Du Monde, where she had two coffees, this time, and ate her fill of fresh beignets. Then she ordered a large cup to go, and another dozen beignets for the road.
      She knew she'd pay the price for drinking so much coffee when she was due to drive, but she couldn't help herself.
      She'd half hoped she would see Dennis and Rosie one last time before she left, but realized that it was far to early for that.
      Paige drove away slowly, turning over her newly acquired memories of New Orleans in her head. They were sweet, with only a faint twinge of undefined regret tainting them. All in all, a great vacation so far, she thought.
      She got on the elevated interstate heading east. At Waveland, Mississippi's outskirts, she passed a Charger that was the same color as

hers, moving in the opposite direction as she, and had the oddest sensation of both coming and going.
      Maybe it was from the Collie bud last night, and from finishing off the hash this morning, she thought. She made a mental note to start acquiring varieties of hash to add to her collection of smokables.
      When she's passed through Mississippi and was nearly through Alabama, she saw road signs announcing that Florida lay ahead. She checked her GPS and found an artery headed north to Auburn. Fuck Florida, she thought, listening to the copy of Bad Brains' 'I Against I' that she'd bought at Tower Records.

Chapter 18 - Revelation
      Jean's USC visits were primarily focused on obtaining specific DNA sequences from the archives of the biology and psychology departments. His research fellow status accorded him access that no grad student and few professors could match.
      From the biology department, he obtained a full set of samples of the major racial phenotypes: black, white, Asian, Indian, Indian, Sur- American, Pan-European, and Slavic. He didn't intend to discriminate, and instead sought a commonality that would insure inclusiveness.
      The psychology department contained a wealth of samples pertinent to his research. A few weekends of study resulted in obtaining samples from psychopaths, both overt and covert. The overt psychopaths, sociopaths, had publicly exhibited symptoms of psychopathy, generally violent criminal behavior.
      The covert psychopaths were more difficult to discern, but Jean became something of an expert in what he considered investigative ponerology. To find examples, he used social demographics in conjunction with psychological profiles.
      He began correlating likely candidates from the psychology pool against social strata, status, and their past and present achievements. Most of the samples the school possessed were of former students.
      The rest were current students, and extreme cases of the criminal mind. A few were actually famous, including Kenneth Bianchi, one of the Hillside Strangler duo, and an anonymous sample long believed to be from San Francisco's Zodiac killer.
      Jean patiently recorded the DNA sequences of those he considered most likely to be psychopaths, and began a private database of sequences, which he intended to use in his own version of Project Douglas. He had obtained the full source code for the most current revision, with one eye on modifying it for his own purposes.
      The covert psychopaths were difficult to suss out, and often required judgment calls on his part. It involved selecting candidates who seemed to exhibit a lack of human emotion, according to their psychological case studies.
      Jean began to compare these candidates based on their real-world achievements and family backgrounds. It was in part also based on social strata.

      The operating premise was that psychopaths tended to be upwardly mobile and were descended from other upwardly mobile psychopaths, and it was certainly supported by the data. It was made slightly more difficult to pinpoint them because very few USC students came from poor families.
      There was a saying, "Behind every great fortune lies a great crime." Jean focused on those he determined to be the wealthiest, most driven of the families and offspring.
      From there, where possible, he followed up on this by checking the latest achievements of related graduates, and even a few current students attending USC.
      Eventually, a pattern began to form. He was accumulating a DNA database of those most likely to possess what he considered to be the fascist gene.
      The next Saturday after acquiring the ayahausca, an announcement went out on the Douglas listserv. Not only had the second layer of DNA sequencing produced quantifiable results, there was now solid evidence indicating third layer encoding.
      The news rocked the world of human genome research, and spread beyond the secretive world of genetics research and began creeping into popular culture. The members of Team Douglas were hailed, individually and collectively, as heroes. Jean's name appeared alongside others in Time magazine.
      Jean thought about his DMT experience, and what it showed him about the final, fourth layer of encoding.
      That particular revelation, which he had revealed to absolutely no one, led Jean's private research to some extremely interesting tangents which he intended to explore at a later date, once he had isolated the root cause of authoritarian impulses.
      There was a chance many of us were at least partial aliens. Many of these thoughts were particularly difficult for Jean to swallow, because they were in stark contrast to his own personal beliefs and values.
      First of all, he'd never put much stock in the idea that the Earth has been visited by extraterrestrials. Scientifically, he understood it was certainly possible, even one day inevitable.
      But space was so vast and empty, he considered interstellar flight to be a very unlikely prospect. That left the most likely mode of travel to be interdimensional, which he was even more incredulous of.

      He understood that string theory, which he regarded as the current best model of explaining the structure of our universe, only worked mathematically if one presumed the existence of either eleven or twenty- seven dimensions.
      He could intellectualize that notion, but found it very difficult to accept on a personal level. Quantum physics, of which he had only a passing familiarity, smacked of magic, or the divine, to Jean.
      Which led to his next mental stumbling block, religion. Jean had not only considered himself and objective realist, but an atheist. And some of the best evidence regarding our possible extraterrestrial origins came from the Bible.
Worse yet, there was a definite racial slant to the theory.
      The earliest writings to support this notion came from Ezekiel and Genesis. The book of Ezekiel detailed what seemed to be an early UFO sighting, during the pre-Christian era of the Old Testament. In it, Ezekiel describes a wheel within a wheel in the sky, made of colored lights.
      Better yet, Genesis made reference to the Nephilim, or Watchers. Considered to be angels in ancient times, the Nephilim were described as ten feet tall, and possessing awesome powers, far exceeding those of man.
      Aliens, in other words. And they lusted after and bred with human women.
      If one looks at the many references to angels in the Bible in this light, an entirely new perspective is gained. Perhaps the alleged healing powers of Christ himself indicated he was a descendant of the hybrid bloodline.
      It was very difficult for Jean to accept, but the data was beginning to mount. Only his DMT trip forced him to seriously consider it. What made it even harder for him to accept was his thorough understanding of mitochondrial DNA.
      Jean knew that homo sapiens originated in Africa, and then dispersed east through Yemen, finally heading in all directions around the globe, and acquiring the genetic differences we know today as race.
      The Nephilim theory, supported in his mind by his glimpse at the forth layer encoding, meant that Africans were the original habitants of the planet, and interbred with more or less whites from another planet.
      To Jean's anti-racist mind, the concept was quite unsettling. Then again, skin color wasn't what defined our differences, but rather the specific

DNA sequences we possessed.
      Skin color was quite misleading, as many people are superficially one race or another, but their DNA reveals them to be primarily composed of genes of a different race entirely.
      The extraterrestrial angle complicated everything entirely too much, in Jean's mind. Race and genetics, the product of evolution, made more sense without this additional complexity.
      Yet the evidence existed, despite Jean's personal beliefs. In science, you went where the data led you.
      Black Muslims in America, in part, cited legends of an evil black scientist, Yacub, who created whites in a lab as an experiment.
      Jean countered all of these thoughts with his knowledge of the historical religious texts of ancient India.
      The ancient vedic books spoke of great wars in Earth's ancient history, involving flying machines, energy weapons akin to lasers, and even thermonuclear weapons.
      There are even great fields of green glass sheets dotting the planet that could possibly be the result of nuclear explosions.
      And this was a primary argument against interstellar travel, light speed considerations aside. Civilizations are always more likely to destroy themselves via nuclear wars, viruses, or to die from a comet or meteor impact than to develop the ability to travel the stars, much less interdimensionally.
      In some strange way, this thought was more comforting to Jean. But it was a superficial thought. In more or less infinite space and time, everything that was possible would happen eventually. Or had already happened.
      There were other complications that seemed to support the notion that we had destroyed ourselves before. Fringe science cited evidence of modern man one hundred and even five hundred million years ago. Human footprints appeared in the same strata with dinosaur footprints, according to some.
      In other words, it was at least as likely that different races, once having a common origin, evolved into vastly different beings, and then again interbred.
      One example of this was the fact that people with red hair carried portions of Neanderthal DNA within them. They were essentially another

race unto themselves.
      We were all mutts, at this point, that it scarcely mattered. Even Murray and Herrnstein's The Bell Curve, a treatise on race and intelligence considered to be racist by some, was tempered by details such as the fact that twenty percent of blacks were smarter than eighty percent of whites in America.
      Race, and skin color in particular was not the best indicator of ability, in other words. If more people understood genetics, Jean felt, racism would cease to be a large problem, nor matter how biologically imperative it seemed to be, from a survival standpoint.
All of these complex thoughts and emotions made Jean's head hurt.
He wondered what Maxxy would think of all this.
      And then he decided to try the ayahuasca and see what secrets it held for him.
###
      Maxine arrived home after spending the night at the apartment of two roommates she shared classes with, studying, eating pizza, and smoking out of a gravity bong.
      A gravity bong, in reality a vacuum bong, Maxxy knew, involved a bowl of weed stuck in the cap of a two-liter bottle with the bottom cut off of it.
      You put the contraption in a bucket of water, and slowly pulled it up while lighting the bowl. The resultant vacuum filled the two-liter with thick smoke. You then took the top off, place your mouth on it, and pushed the bottle back down.
      The entire two liters of smoke, or as much as you could handle, was forced into your lungs. Much more smoke than one could ordinarily inhale.
      In truth, precious little in the way of studying was achieved, but new high scores and personal bests were recorded playing 'Guitar Hero' and 'Katamari Damacy'.
      Maxxy's heart leapt when she saw the motorcycle at first, until she remembered he had already left for California by now, and that he was nowhere in sight.
      Since there were no identifying marks, and she didn't know his license plate number, Maxine chalked it up to coincidence. But she was somewhat shaken by the initial shock.

      When she entered her apartment, she failed to notice the envelope, which had been pushed behind the door when she opened it.
      A few hours later, on her way out for some Pepto-Bismol, she picked it up. It was unmarked, and heavy.
      She opened it in the sunlight on the veranda. She saw a note, a pink slip, and two keys, and understood in an instant. She read the note, and swooned, holding on to the railing for balance.
      "Tom Sawyer, how could you be so noble?" she asked, echoing Twain's Becky Thatcher.
      When Maxine went downstairs and opened the storage compartment as instructed, she found Jean's symbol of his commitment to her. Her hands went to her stomach as she vomited, and Maxxy knew with the full force of feminine intuition that she was pregnant.

Chapter 19 - Rock City
      The panhandle of Florida, Paige knew, was a snake pit, a cesspool to be avoided at all costs. Lacking the attractions of southern Florida, and the accompanying income from tourism, the non-beach towns had but one thriving industry: the jails.
      Shithole towns such as Chipley preyed upon unsuspecting travelers who made the mistake of stopping for gas with so much as a broken taillight. Many a driver on route to Orlando found themselves residents of the local correctional center, and if they somehow were unable to make bail, interred for some thirty to ninety days, easily.
      These towns were laws unto themselves, and operated far outside the bounds of the Constitution. So, fuck Florida, basically. If Paige ever went there, she'd fly into Orlando International, and leave the same way.
      She drove north through Alabama, which was beautiful, if a bit too countrified for her tastes. Farming and livestock seemed to be the main industries she could see, aside from logging.
      When she made it to Auburn, where she stayed the night, Paige visited the university the next morning before she continued on her merry way. P.J. had attended a few classes here, he told her, before dropping out and entering the police academy.
      It was a stately, grand campus, with perfect weather and an industrious atmosphere. Paige wondered what had made Peter drop out.
      But Auburn was a mere pit stop on her way to her intended destination, Tennessee.
      Fall was approaching, and the cooler temperatures and changing leaves made for most pleasant driving conditions. She made great time, and reached the state line at nightfall.
      She checked her maps, and decided that any town inside the border was a good place to stop, and was surprised to find she had to drive another sixty miles before she found a town big enough to support multiple chain hotels.
      Money was no object, but Paige was definitely not spending the night in some seedy motel in an unnamed southern town.
      The next morning, coffee and doughnuts were a let down, after New Orleans. Still, she was excited by what lie ahead.
      When Paige was a child, she had taken an extended trip with her grandparents, from Ohio to southern Georgia. Now she was going to relive

that treasured summer memory by revisiting the places she could clearly recall.
      She drove on until she reached the town containing the first attraction she wished to visit. By the time she got there, she had nearly missed the last tour of the day at three p.m., but the ticket seller radioed ahead and asked the tour guide to delay the venture by five minutes, then brought her to the cave entrance in a golf cart, instead of making her walk.
      It was a small group of eleven, plus the guide, and no one seemed to be the least put out by the fact that Paige was the cause of their delay.
      After your basic amateur spelunking safety lecture, they descended a railed staircase into the past. Around a corner, mere yards away, lay a gigantic body of water in a chilly and unlit cavern.
      The guide's running monologue was interesting but essentially unchanged from Paige's childhood. The cavern, too, was unchanged. But instead of losing allure in proportion to her gains in height, age and experience, the lake was even more enchanting than she had remembered it. In fact, she felt she scarcely appreciated it the first time she had encountered it.
      It was truly a sight to behold. Not a pool, or a pond, but an enormous lake, stretching far beyond what the eye could see, despite the aid of torches and flashlights.
      They loaded onto a flat-bottom skiff, and using a mostly silent trolling motor, glided away from the dock. When they approached a narrow-mouthed passage in the forward cave wall after a minute's travel, the guide's lights shut off at once.
      "It's ok, folks, don't panic now. Give me a second." The boat continued forward as he spoke. Some of the tourists gasped or laughed nervously at the emergency, but none but Paige seemed to know the event was contrived. As a girl, she herself had panicked, ducking between her grandparents for protection from the dark unknown.
      When the tourmaster switched the boat lights on again, people involuntarily oohed and ahhed at the spectacle. The section of lake they were now upon dwarfed the outer chamber by an order of magnitude.
      He hooked the skiff to the right, and began the circuitous trek around the perimeter. Paige noted that after twenty minutes of travel, they had yet to reach the halfway point of their journey.

      The guide stopped for a moment, and used the reverse on the motor to counteract their forward movement. He then used his high-powered flashlight to direct their attention to a spot on the cave wall, slightly above their heads, where they were standing.
      Paige did detect one deviation from her youth. The flashlight was one that used white LEDs, a technology unknown at the time of her last visit.
      There was a single date on the cave wall, oversized and drawn as if with a shaky hand. The guide explained that this was rumored to have been done via torch by the Civil War soldier who had first discovered the cave in the late 1800s.
      Rather than continuing around the edge of the lake, the guide cut left toward the entrance, dimly visible across the dark, still waters.
      One quarter of the way across, he again stopped the motor, this time letting them drift toward the center of the cavern.
"Y'all want to see the fish?" he asked suddenly.
      There was a murmur of assent. Everyone but the guide spoke in hushed, reverential tones, as though they inhabited a gothic cathedral instead of a dank hole in the ground.
      He directed them to look beneath their seats, and there was a brief flurry of activity as each took out a small bag of popcorn.
One or two patrons, began to eat theirs, fully not understanding his
intent.
Before he could direct them, Paige tossed out a big handful, and
soon the mineral rich waters, clear to a depth of three feet or so, roiled with gigantic, apparently ravenous fish.
      "These," he explained, "are rainbow trout. Some good eatin', right there. And easy to catch, as you can imagine. But these particular trout," he went on as the tourists continued to cast bread upon the waters, so to speak, "are protected by Tennessee State Law."
      "You'll note their lack of pigment, or coloration, which is where rainbow get the name. These trout are a flat monochrome. We're not in Kansas anymore."
      Paige tittered at the joke, which had escaped the others in the boat, apparently.
      "Furthermore, each of these fish, to a one, are completely blind. Over time, the lack of sunlight eliminated their need for both markings and

eyesight."
      He let this sink in, and waited until everyone had exhausted their supply of popcorn.
      When they had, and the fish once again submerged, safely away from the prop of the trolling motor, he started slowly back across the lake to the narrow passage that had previously served as the ingress.
      They tied off at the dock, carefully stepped back out of the boat and walked up the stairs by ones and twos.
      They emerged, blinking, into the sunlight, and Paige got the sensation of evolution in miniature, creatures emerging from the dark sea onto dry land, or perhaps being born again.
      More unsettling, it was as if they had journeyed from the abode of the dead, the underworld, back to the land of the living. She shivered in the warmth. Such thoughts had not possessed her when first she had experienced this simulated rebirth.
      She thanked the guide for the experience, and went off to the tour office to acquire the requisite brochures and mandatory t-shirt. It occurred to Paige that she had vacated New Orleans with neither a souvenir nor the fresh fruit she had promised herself.
It was nearing five o'clock, and she was famished.
Paige had had enough of the high life of late, and felt like being bad.
She wanted road food.
      The park ranger who ran the tour office directed her to a greasy spoon, or family-run diner, as he called it, just a few miles past her hotel.
      Paige seated herself at the diner's counter, and a middle-aged woman in a pink waitress outfit which may as well have been a costume worn by Flo on 'Alice' asked, in all seriousness, "What can I do ya for?"
In for a penny, in for a pound, Paige thought.
      "I'd like a large coke, no ice, your largest hamburger with everything and a plate of fries."
      "No prob, hun," the waitress spoke in a shorthand that indicated a lifetime of short-order cookery.
"Do you have hot dogs?" Page asked. "Shore do, shug. Want one?"
"I'd like three, with everything, please."
      The waitress raised an eyebrow at this, but said nothing. She's probably going to binge here and purge in our bathroom, she thought to

herself.
When the food arrived, it was delicious as only foods that are
terribly bad for you can be. The waitress pretended to clean, and occasionally shot glances at the cook, as she watched Paige eat every last morsel of food, down to the piece of lettuce used as garnish.
      "Want a refill, boo?" she asked, automatically reaching for the empty plastic tumbler.
      "No,	thanks,"	Paige	replied,	"I	have	to	get	going.	Big	day tomorrow."
      Despite this invitation to conversation the waitress took her at her word and totaled up her bill by hand, double- checking it.
When she handed it to Paige, she asked, "Was everything alright?" "It was great!" Paige said honestly. "Too good. I almost hurt
myself."
      "I see that," the waitress said, still amazed at the sheer volume of food this petite woman had out away.
      Paige looked at the total and marveled at the difference in economies. Her meal was fully half of what it would have cost on the West Coast.
      She settled up, overtipping, as was her habit. She had to convince her server that she meant to give a tip that was essentially the cost of the meal.
      "Y'all come back now, ya hear?" the woman said, and Paige could only think of 'Hee-Haw' and 'The Beverly Hillbillies'.
      But she had to get some rest. Tomorrow she would walk off her meal, exploring Rock City.

Chapter 20 - Revelation, Part Two
The following morning, the phone rang early, waking Jean. "Hey, superstar," a voice said. Maxine.
"Hey, love," he said in return.
"For someone in Time Magazine, you sure don't sound too excited." "Sorry, I'm still asleep."
      "I woke you?" she checked her watch, "Damn time zones. I get excited and think everyone's on my time."
      Maxine	was	brimming	with	excitement.	"Damn,	wow!	Time Magazine. My fianc�," she said. "I'm so proud."
      "Well, it's not like I did it all myself, but yeah, it is pretty cool, I think. They gave me a raise at work."
      "I can't wait to come visit you," Maxine said. "I look a little different."
      She glanced down at her stomach, which was beginning to protrude, ever so slightly. "I hope you still want me."
      "Don't be silly, Maxxy. I love you. Did you cut your hair or something?"
"Somethin' like that," she said, laughingly.
      "Well, don't worry about a thing on my end. I only have eyes for you. Among other things."
      "Oh, stop, Smooth Talker, Texas Ranger. You're making me randy baby, yeah."
      "We can't both be Randy," he said, "I'll be Frank." They both laughed uproariously at this.
      They spoke at length, and finally Maxine released him. "Well, you go on and do your mad scientist thing," she said. "I need second breakfast." "I guess I can let you go, for now" Jean said. "I love you, Maxine
Jackson. Even though I don't know your middle name."
      "Action's my middle name, baby." They laughed together. "But you can use 'Elizabeth', if you prefer, Mr. Jean Paul Simons."
"Maxine Elizabeth Simons. I like it," Jean said. "You'd better," Maxine said with a smile in her voice. "Love it," he continued.
"Gotta go, I'm-," eating for two, she almost said. "Damn hungry." "Ok, Maxxy, go head on with your bad self. Love you."
"Love you too, love. I'm so proud. Byeee..."

      Jean hung up and showered. He'd had plenty of sleep, and decided he was taking the day off. He made a perfunctory call to human resources, and he was free at last.
      After a light meal of coffee, a banana and cottage cheese, he read and re-read Pookie's instructions.
      He Googled for them, and found out that this set didn't appear online. But the preparation instructions were essentially the same as on most sites pertaining to ayahuasca, so he followed them exactly.
      He'd also read a number of experiences with the drug, so he more or less knew what to expect, even though each person experienced differing reactions, in part.
      At any rate he felt he was ready. An unguided trip could be risky, he knew, but this was personal and private. Besides, he was a veteran psychonaut.
      He drove to a park outside of USC that he'd explored and staked out in advance. It wouldn't do to be disturbed, he knew.
      Jean walked several hundred feet into a copse of trees to a small clearing he'd decided upon for the start of his journey. In his hands was a small woven blanket that he'd gotten from s Navajo reservation, and a Mason jar containing a thin brown liquid.
      He spread the fabric out and faced the sun, sitting indian style, and took a few deep breaths. Then Jean decisively downed the foul-tasting mixture in a single gulp.
      For a long while he waited, fighting the impulse to expectorate and vomit, but eventually the feeling passed, and he retained what he had ingested.
      The sun swelled and pulsated slowly above him, mimicking the rhythm of his relaxing heart. The birdsong songs began to echo and distort. For a long while, he closed his eyes and enjoyed the calming sensations.
      When next Jean opened his eyes, he was in a different world. He occupied a void, but there was not a hint of shadow extant. He sat floating in a formless sea of white light.
      He felt no physical sensations, nor did hear any natural sounds, or discern an up or down. He simply bathed in a somewhat warm glow, as though he was in a space inverse of that of the firmaments.
      Eventually, new sounds reached his ears. Whisperings, slitherings like the sound of two pieces of paper rubbing together grew louder. He

began to see movement out of the corner of his eyes.
      The universe of his birth was gone. Jean had crossed over into the invisible world of the unknown. Lumbering shapes passed here and there in the distance, uninterested in his presence.
      Smaller, ribbon-shaped creatures began to circle him, weaving up and down, entertaining each other like braids as they went, in the manner of the physician's staff of Asclepius or the structure of DNA.
      Larger, similarly shaped creatures, which took the appearance of neon-patterned moray eels, chased the swarming serpentine entities this way and that, as if to dissuade them from drawing nearer to Jean's representation on this plain of existence.
      The smaller creatures darted exuberantly above and below the forms of the larger, describing loops and whirls, coming back to nip at their tails in a playful manner.
      During this time Jean felt nothing, but watched with detached interest. Whatever would happen here couldn't hurt him physically. His mental state, however, needed to be steeled against what might come to pass in this ether which surrounded us all, ordinarily undetectable.
      He felt distant rumblings, and the sounds grew louder, until the din began to crowd his thoughts, making further analysis unfeasible.
      All at once there was a thunderous crash, and the sea of light surrounding Jean flashed black in synchrony with the noise, as if negative lightning was arcing nearby.
      A rushing roar filled his entire being, and Jean braced for the impact of what felt and sounded like a hurtling freight train.
      Another, larger crack of this inverse electrical current occurred, and the largest of the creatures Jean had seen so far came rushing toward him like psychedelic bullet. He braced himself for whatever was to come as best he could, but the entire experience was so unreal, it was like attempting to resist a dream.
      Jean made no actions that could be construed as dodging, and faced whatever inevitable fate was in store for him with resolve, neither anticipating nor dreading the coming impact.
      The speeding N-dimensional sea snake bared its needle-like fangs and its eyes flashed red, inches from his person. Jean tried to close his already closed eyes, and of course could not.

      It aimed for his pineal gland, in the recesses of his brain.For a moment, the collision seemed anti-climatic. He felt the form of the creature pass through his cranium as a divine wind, and heard the cavernous roar of a millennia of hurricanes.
During this brief period, Jean was formless.
  When his avatar returned, it was to hear and feel an awful cracking as his skull and mind was cleaved in two.
      The larger snakes were gone, leaving only the vague, whale-sized figures in the indistinct distance, which never closed the gap between them.
      The smallest swirled around him, coalescing into a schooling mass that writhed individually while navigating in concert. At once, they darted in unison away from Jean, in front of him, until they occupied the blind spot that resulted from the left and right hemisphere of his skull separating.
      He considered this, and noticed that if he strained, he could see his own back and shoulders.
      What he couldn't see were the wrasse-like creatures reversing directions and rocketing back toward him until it was too late.
      They slammed into the gap betwixt his eyes with a pain existential in nature. Humanity and supernaturality collided in a fusion that changed his very being forever.
      His mind squirmed in a most unsettling manner, but he fervently fought the impulse to dislodge these otherworldly parasites with every ounce of his resolve, lest he despoil the gift of the god Ayahuasca.
      As Jean gained control of his natural revulsion at this occupation, the two halves of his mind slowly and deliberately began to move back toward each other. As they did, the discomfiture he experienced as host began to subside.
      When he was again of one mind, sight restored, the unnatural feelings were replaced with a deep inner calm.
      He found himself now entirely alone. The void around him began to slowly cycle through sixteen point seven million colors, moving through the color wheel from white to black.
      When he found himself in an inky sea, darker than the deepest black, Jean felt his travel was nearing its end.
      Ponderously, ever so slowly, the darkness began to recede. Jean began to discern trees, birds, and flitting insects, but bathed in ultraviolet and infrared.

      At long last, Jean was able to close his physical, as opposed to his mind's eyes, and attempt to regain his composure.
      Eyelids shut, he felt the all-seeing eye of the grand old architect of the universe upon him, and Jean knew his calling in life.
      Eventually, normalcy, insofar as it now existed for Jean, had returned, however infinitely improbable it was. He opened his eyes and blinked in the sunlight.
      He craned his neck upward to stare at the noonday sun for several moments. Yes, he thought, in response to the messages he was receiving, I understand. I'll do it. Soon.
      Second-layer encoding was for the most part was resolved in an instant. It would take Jean a month to detail what he had learned in the time it took for a photon of light to enter his retinas. And he would have no explanation as to how he came upon these complex explanations of life's deepest mysteries.
      The set of proteins that concerned Jean's purpose, buried deep within the third layer, would remain a mystery to all but himself for years to come. He would never detail them in writing.
      Jean glanced down at his lap to see a yellow and dark green-striped garter snake sleeping coiled in his lap. Feeling his gaze, the tiny serpent lifted his head, looked Jean in the eyes, flicked his tongue, and went upon its way.

Chapter 21 - Sleeping Village
      Road-weary, Paige slept in until after 10:00 a.m. She was considering the rut she had fallen into back at home, and didn't want her vacation days to fall into predictability, as well.
      Only two days after she'd quit smoking, for the time being, she reminded herself, her head was clearing up, and Paige began to realize that the weed was what had enabled her to take each day in stride, without looking at the gestalt.
      And she was determined to change her previously natural order of things. To that end, today she slept in, and instead of coffee, she went to McDonalds for two Big Macs, large fries, and a large Coke. She'd deal with the bigger issues later, she decided.
Perhaps she was rationalizing.
      As she inhaled her brunch, she considered what Terry had said before she'd gone, about her role in the department as a whole. Paige wanted a raise and a promotion.
      She could live without the raise, strictly speaking, although the price of fuel was finally beginning to impact the price of food, and Paige's taste for the gourmet and exorbitant when it came to gastronomy would be aided somewhat by a pay increase. She found she was saving less, lately.
      But more importantly, a raise came part and parcel with more responsibility and increased duties, which was her real goal. After seeing how often cases were being mishandled, she felt she could do some good in managing cases and shaping policy when she wasn't in the field. Her current role as mere detective didn't allow for such things.
      Of course, the chief seemed miffed about her bailing on him to take a vacation, but he'd be over that as soon as she returned, she believed. He huffed and puffed and blew a lot of smoke, but Terry knew that Paige was bluster without substance, where she was concerned. Her track record was impeccable.
      She got a refill and strode back to her rental. The weather was so nice and pleasant in Tennessee, she wished she had traded up for a convertible like her own.
      In accordance to her plan of avoiding routine, she hadn't checked out of her room that morning. She may stay the night there again, or she may not, but she would let the fates decide.

      Several miles outside of the town that gave home to the country's largest subterranean lake, she began to see billboards. "See Rock City," they exclaimed, without explanation. Were she not in Tennessee, but rather say, Seattle, she might have thought Rock City a museum dedicated to purveyors of bass, drums and guitar.
      Nashville proclaimed themselves the capital of country and bluegrass, but the reality was Nashville was much more in touch with the roots of rock-n-roll than most cities, and that definitely included over- privileged, bleeding-hearted Washington State.
      She dialed up 'Tennessee' by Arrested Development on her iPod, and then listened to the seminal Johnny Cash album produced by Rick Rubin. The juxtaposition of Cash's voice, and the weight behind it, the accumulated pain acquired by a lifetime of hard living, against the modernistic sentiments expressed by Trent Reznor's lyrics in 'Hurt' brought tears to her eyes as she drove.
      Perhaps she was crying for her lost grandparents. Her childhood. For Suzanne. For the life she hadn't lived, and the life she had yet to live. Perhaps she was getting her period.
      When the next sign proclaimed "Fabulous Rock City - 5 Miles," she decided she was all cried out. She checked her mascara. It was waterproof, but she had to make sure it hadn't run. She didn't want to look like a raccoon, or a porn star who'd gone three oral rounds with Peter North.
      Satisfied that she was at most red and puffy around the eyes, Paige relaxed and enjoyed the release of endorphins she gained from opening the emotional floodgates a tiny bit. Her profession demanded detachment and stoicism, so she grabbed her opportunities to feel emotion when and where she could, and relished them in private.
      Although it wasn't apparent just yet, Paige knew Tennessee was the most beautiful state in the south. It was a well-kept secret, and the residents of the state liked it that way.
      Newcomers and interlopers massed in Nashville and Memphis, leaving the rest of the state, the gorgeous, scenic, pristine portions, to the neo-aboriginals who had occupied it since the time when they themselves were the interlopers.
      When she reached Rock City, she was abuzz with memory, inspired by the promise of what lay ahead. She could see the vistas and valleys below, already, the rocky crags jutting upward from verdant blankets of

grass, dotted with clusters of trees. In her head, 'Rockytop' by Barbara Mandrell and the Mandrell Sisters was on a continuous loop.
      Unable to contain herself, she ran and skipped to the ticket office, much as she had as a child in the company of her grandparents, only without the laughing and admonitions for them to hurry up.
      Paige bought an adult pass, but caught her self-thinking "One Child" when asked by the man working the ticket counter. He put a wristband on her delicate, pale wrist and eyed her appreciatively, clearly grateful for the proximity to a living goddess.
      Despite her urge to rush out the door and begin the day's adventure, she exercised her waning discipline and rushed through the gift shop, so she could spend the rest of her day wandering and exploring.
      She quickly picked out the best available t-shirt and a bourbon tumbler. She'd smoke her hash from under it, she decided.
      Paige changed into the baby blue t-shirt in the ladies room, and secreted her souvenir glass under the seat of her car. Prepared for the day with a soft canteen of water and her Timberland hiking boots, Paige set off toward the sun, which was nearly overhead.
      She hoped the boots possessed function as well as form. Her steel- toed Doc Martin's were super-comfortable, but Paige celebrated the occasion by buying new footwear and was already realizing the folly of breaking in new, unproven boots on a hike of up to ten miles. Oh, well, live and learn, she thought, undaunted.
      It was a well-thought out, self-directed walking tour. The first leg of the day lulled you into complacency. Paige walked through a forest that seemed positively primeval, reading with interest the plaques detailing information on the local flora and fauna.
      Although it was high noon, and would continue to get hotter until two or three, the forest glens were cool and breezy, and the noonday heat prevented many tourists from setting out behind her, and so Paige mainly wandered in quiet solitude.
      The forest trail was idyllic enough, but what had enchanted Paige in her youth were the structures. They had lost little charm as she aged, but rather changed from magical to charming, quaint and endearing.
      The first building was a gigantic house made of candy and gingerbread. Frosted eaves overhung candy cane posts on a porch with a door studded with over-sized gumdrops. Ostensibly, this was the witch's

home from 'Hansel and Gretel', but the designers had wisely omitted anything overt that may instill fear in small children.
      As an adult, Paige made note of the cauldron in the front yard, already stocked with firewood beneath it, waiting to cook plump young children. Behind the house was a detail unnoticed by her when she was herself a plump little girl, an add-on to the house, roughly twice the size of an outhouse, with bars on the window, and an over-sized iron padlock.
      Paige caught a slight chill at these previously undetected sinister aspects of this particular display and moved on toward a patch of sunlight to warm herself and push the darker thoughts out of her mind.
      Before Paige left this enchanted glen completely, she passed through a mini-forest of giant mushrooms, populated by dwarven statuary. The 'shrooms had small doors, windows, and even window boxes where living flowers grew. She found herself wishing she could shrink down and enter these mycological houses, which were perfect to the last detail inside.
      In one of nature's ironies, there were actual mushrooms growing beneath the larger artificial ones. Sadly, Paige saw none of the amanita muscaria variety with their distinctive red caps dotted with white circles.
      The designers, apparently anticipating her thoughts had added a hookah-smoking caterpillar atop one of the last of the giant toadstools. A small wooden door was affixed to a nearby tree. Next to that was a simple table, and a bottle with a tag that read 'drink me' laminated against the elements.
      On a whim, she attempted to lift it, only to find that it was of course stuck fast to the tabletop.
      The forest trail ended soon after that, and she emerged at the edge of a cliff that seemed to drop down a mile or more, all at once.
      A simple guardrail and self-preservation were all that stood between visitors to Rock City and certain death.
      Signs directed her to the right, but Paige strongly considered going left and trying to find a safe path down to the valley below. What kept her from venturing out on her own was their policy of searching for visitors who hadn't turned in their wristbands by sunset, or 8 p.m, whichever was later.
      A few visitors had gotten lost, but Rock City had never had a single fatality, the literature proudly proclaimed.

      She walked along the cliff's edge, slowly following the guardrail and pathway, transfixed by both the view and the accompanying on rush of memories it brought about.
      She came upon a sight that now seemed more than a little incongruous in her adulthood, a balanced rock. It was really a stone pillar with a hugely over-sized top, but the effect was surreal, both because it reminded her of the Roadrunner and Coyote cartoons, and because the sight seemed reserved for western environments by association.
      At the next vista, proclaimed to be the literal high point of the tour, she spent her time watching the sun slowly set in somber reflection.
      The final landmark was a rope bridge, some hundred feet long, spanning the abyss below. Paige needed to hold the hand of both grandparents in order to steel herself to cross it before, and even then, she trembled.
      She considered it a metaphor for her gradual transformation into adulthood that she now decisively and sure-footedly strode across it, undeterred by the swaying motions, the wind, or the seemingly endless fall below her.
      Paige didn't spend a lot of time looking down, but at the midway point, she stopped and took a multitude of pictures. She held the camera at shoulder-level, and turned in thirty-degree increments in a full circle. Later she would experiment with stitching the pictures together in Photoshop to make a seamless panorama. If only she had someone to share it with, she thought.
      At journey's end, she realized her larger journey was also at an end. Paige had revisited the fondest memories of her youth, and found they were still intact, now enhanced with the passage of time even, rather than diminished. She said a silent prayer for her deceased grandparents and moved on with her life.

Chapter 22 - Messiah
      Jean collected his racing thoughts, slowly rose, and returned home. Upon arrival, he scrawled a single word in a fresh notebook, "Messiah". Then he slept for thirteen hours and eleven minutes.
      He dreamed he was the only man on Earth. But it wasn't Earth, as we knew it. It was Earth Mark Two. Paradise. There, he was without fear or need. He had no desire for food or water. It was not necessary to breathe. The untidy process of elimination was eliminated.
      He soared above the treetops and could see the landscape unfold ahead of him, in neat, tiled increments.
Simulation.
      Although he didn't see them, he felt the presence of angels. Each of them female, each a perfect, unique specimen. Jean knew they were his eternal reward, and this paradise would one day be his to share with them, to explore and enjoy, to repopulate.
      He touched down at the edge of a canopied forest. He found himself lecturing to an audience rapt with attention. The plants, the heavens, the insects and animals, each granted Jean their attention as he spoke to them at length.
      The fireflies blinked in agreement and anticipation of his next utterances. When he had finished his lecture, he was presented with a few options. The forest, a tunnel, a road.
      He could enter the forest, feral, to become the next incarnation of Pan. The trees parted ahead of him, to signal their desire that he live among them.
      The tunnel extended beneath the road, and indicated that, should he chooses that route, his future would be entirely unearthly. Alien. There was a note of unwholesomeness to this.
      Jean chose the road, the path back to civilization. To Maxxy, and his life's work. The architect of this simulated environment had encoded him with free will, and he exercised it. But it was important that he was given a choice.
      He walked along the road for millennia, it felt. When he could walk no more, Earth Mark One began to resolve around him. The landscape was unchanged, but cars and trucks, headlights blazing, began to once again occupy the roads. He turned back to look at a semi which blared its horn at him and was enveloped in the white glow of its headlights.

He awoke with his head on fire. Paradise. Angels. Goatu. Messiah. Simulation.
      Jean no longer had to think, or question. He was free to simply do. In this simulation, he was but one element in a nearly endless iteration of scenarios in pursuit of perfection. He was free from right or wrong. What he did was right, without question, because he followed his programming.
      Freewill was a particularly inventive illusion in this sim. Without this thin veil to shield us, our lives would be rote, empty, filled at best with quiet, impotent desperation. Hopeless.
      Instead, our every action was carefully calculated in advance to present us with the appearance of choice, satisfying an innate need for autonomy. This allowed the simulation to proceed without end, and our belief in our independence, and the resultant actions that proceeded from it, in exchange powered it.
      He considered entropy, and thermodynamics, and confirmed that energy was never lost or created, merely converted and exchanged.
      Powered by his own thoughts, Jean worked through the night. He mapped the relevant portions of the third layer encoding for later use, making countless millions of computing hours unnecessary.
      Whether extraterrestrial intelligence, or a glimpse into the deeper workings of the sim, life on Earth was to take a quantum leap forward.
      Jean suspected both. The holographical universe construct we occupied was but a process in a computer operating on the plane of existence above our own. No matter how you sliced it, it was alien to us, even if it were human.
      He strongly felt that the whole of time, past, present and future, all occupied the now. Which indicated he was already in some far-flung future, in a simulated present. And that future would end at the beginning, in the distant past. A perfect circle.
      With each infinitely long cycle the universe or metaverse, rather, the collection of multiverses, advanced toward perfection.
      At the beginning of this grand cycle, there existed only pure energy, and the absence of energy, or its inverse, negative energy. At the end lay perfection, where each subatomic particle had nestled into niches that complimented each other perfectly.

      In the penultimate act of perfection, it all had to be destroyed in order to begin anew. Creative destruction, Jean thought. Hail Eris! Hail Discordia!
      These rationalizations, implanted into his fragile mind as easily as a farmer pushed a seed into freshly-tilled fertile soil, enable Jean to toil toward his purpose unfettered by questions of mortals, mortality or morality. We occupied a transmutable perfection, and our every action was perfect, leading to a more finely tuned version of perfection.
      Heaven and Hell, he realized, were the two logical extremes of energy, token symbols used to make the equations understandable. One without the other would be static. Stasis. At which point, there was no difference between the two extremes. Where they mixed was life.
      He began writing his second layer discoveries, unedited, directly to the Douglas listserv. He presented them as theoretical ruminations, rather than as what he knew they were, unchallengeable statements of fact.
      Each of his lengthy screeds caused an uproar, which he ignored. Communication, for Jean, became a one-way street, and he, a conduit. Discussions would only distract him, and diminish the impact and implication of his hard-won discoveries.
      With each post, each assertion, Jean sent individual researchers into new tangents, armed with new pieces of the puzzle. The implications were profound.
      Divine though he may be, a random number generator in a sandbox we thought of as the entirety of existence, Jean still had to pay the rent.
      He prepared a double-strength pot of coffee, and went to work, which Jean now considered his cover story, a disguise he wore. Because for every Messiah, he knew, there existed an equal and opposite Centurion. A devil.
      His job became easier than ever. Solutions to problems entered his mind minutes before the problems themselves surfaced, this keeping his mind free to tackle larger issues, open to receive instruction.
      Call it Ra, God, VALIS, quantum communication, ESP, or what have you, Jean's thoughts were not his own. It is simply not possible, Jean thought, for a single mind to know so much on its own.
      The universe was the computer we each occupied, in a sense. Or, more to the point, each of us occupied a different universe, a different computer, all of which were quantumly networked.

      If he hadn't been given a task to complete, he would have refocused his considerable energies, knowledge and talents on cosmology and subatomic physics. He was on the verge of a unified theory, a single viewpoint that solved the quandary of microcosm versus macrocosm.
Instead, he listened to 'Meter Vs Yard', and checked out eBay.
      As things now always went for Jean, he immediately had what he needed at his fingertips. He couldn't always get what he wanted, as the song said, but the next piece required was available for the taking, without fail.
      It was both comforting and disturbing. He couldn't resolve the dichotomy, so he ignored it in zen-like fashion. He believed everything and nothing. In the words of Gibby Haynes, he was "Psychic...Powerless."
      This irrationalization, the tao method of doing by not doing, enabled him to sally forth undaunted, in the face of what most would consider crippling mental illness.
      Jean knew it as enlightenment, and was saddened by the knowledge that most would never attain such bliss. For whatever reason, their minds were blocked from admission into these colleges of cosmic higher learning.
      He began to consider them non-player characters in the role-playing game we know as life. Pawns in the game. Tools, at best. Hindrances and obstacles, at worst.
To continue the gaming simile, each had a class, and an alignment. Good, neutral and evil were involved in an existential ballet,
choreographed by an invisible hand. Neutrals were swayed one way or another, at times, and the balanced would shift, but each tip of the scales resulted in a new eddy, which moved toward balance.
      Despite what all of science believed, this was perpetual motion. It was so obvious and apparent, it could only be too simple to appeal to men of science, whose chief power over others lay in making their explanations overly complex.
      Jean began to consider class as archetypes. J.R.R. Tolkien was a prophet in the same manner as Heinlein, King, Clarke, Asimov, Philip K. Dick and others. In fact all writers, and artists in general, revealed parts of the undisputed truth.
      What Tolkien expressed in 'The Hobbit', 'The Lord of The Rings', and 'The Silmarillion' was a racial, or, more accurately, genetic memory.
      His writings, from which all RPGs flowed, from Dungeons and Dragons to Final Fantasy, to whatever the next big thing in gaming would

be, contained the secret history behind our present day genetic make-up.
      Each of us could be classified by his taxonomy of fantasy races and classes.
      We all knew ogres, orcs, elves, hobbits, wizards, paladins, clerics, princesses, princes, kings, queens. Golems. Chivalric knights, black knights. While each certainly had the capacity for good and evil, many occupied one end of the spectrum or another. For many, conversion was quite simply not a part of their character.
      Each side of the balanced but constantly in flux equation held a blend of the classes. While the physical characteristics were less apparent now, Jean knew that in the distant past, they were actual races, and were now simply muted and homogenized.
      Hybridized. Each of us halflings, to a degree. Some, however, retained a majority of one characteristic. If you looked closely, you could still see their origins, as plain as the looks on their faces.

Chapter 23 - Childhood's End
      Paige Frances Burner decided to grow up. She realized the niche she occupied was in fact a stagnating canal, lacking vitality. She nested in a tidal pool at the neglect of the ocean.
      It was no wonder, she thought, that she found herself without a mate. She was the biggest fish in a small pond of her own design, and had simply swallowed up any potential suitors, in an effort to eliminate competition.
      She needed to expand her horizons, and begin the second act in her life's tragic-comic drama. Paige decided to return to California, in the manner that a salmon returned to their origins in order to spawn.
      For all the temporary joy her vacation had brought her, she returned to her room numb, at best, and alternatingly depressed, at worst.
      Predictably, she began menstruating that evening, which spurred new thoughts, those of a mate, or mates. Of a homestead, an immovable keep. A castle of her own, with a view where she mastered all she surveyed.
Of children of her own.
      She ordered three pizzas with everything, and a gallon of Coke, comfort food, and burrowed under her blankets for protection against her own mutinous mind and body.
      Unable to stop herself, she switched on her Treo at long-last and dialed Terry.
      "Chief," she said, straining to keep the emotion from her voice, and failing, "I want to come home." She sobbed, silently, but he still heard her.
      "It's about good goddamned time, Burner," he said gently, "We missed you. Carry your ass."
      She cried herself to sleep, to be awakened nearly an hour later by a pizza delivery driver. She accepted the food without relish, and gave a perfunctory tip, for a change.
      Here's a tip, kid, she thought. Don't piss your youth away delivering pizza for a living.
      Her newfound morbidity felt liberating. She switched on the TV and became mired in schadenfreude, suddenly delighted that CNN could show her countless souls considerably less fortunate than she.
      She ate until she looked pregnant, and drank Coke until she found herself on the toilet taking in one liquid while discharging another, and decided to get a grip.

Tomorrow is another day, she hoped.
      She gripped Ms. Kitty, and eventually found the release she needed, both physical and mental, that enabled her to sleep.
      She awoke the next day, and slept with her eyes open, numb to life's endless possiblities.
      Idly, she flipped the channels and waited for the local pizza parlor to reopen, wishing all the while she had some dope. Being stoned all the time was infinitely preferable to the alternative, she decided.
      After she'd consumed the equivalent of both breakfast and lunch in a single afternoon sitting, she lucked upon Cary Grant in 'The Fountainhead'.
      While both he and his character were both dashing, heroic figures to Paige, she knew the real underlying hero was Ayn Rand, who went on to spend the next decade after writing the book on which her favorite film was based penning 'Atlas Shrugged'.
      This gargantuan work was both critical and unknown, outside of literary and philosophical circles. The average college graduate knew nothing about this tome, or its authoress, even though it had been parodied on The Simpsons, a cartoon which many could recite from, delivering endless lines from memory. Cult movies and cartoons were the modern equivalent of Beowulf, it seemed.
      Paige considered that perhaps she should start writing. She knew one thing, though. She'd never join the legion of hack authors who churned out rife and clich�d novels about detectives, lawyers, or cowboys. Cyberpunk was more to her liking, future fantasy worlds where technology and magic were merged and made indistinguishable. Perhaps with a healthy dose of lesbian sexual slavery and domination.
      The thought of radically shifting direction in life roused her from her waking slumber, slightly, and she booked a return flight for the next afternoon. Wherever her destiny lay, it was apparently not in Tennessee, or even New Orleans, as much as that city felt like home.
      She had the frightening feeling that perhaps she was going mad. The impulse came to her again and again to go outside without shoes, and tread upon the dewy grass, to get her feet dirty, to explore the nearby woods.
      Paige resisted, feeling that acquiescing to what she considered irrational thoughts would only further encourage this disturbing condition, and degrade her already tenuous and fragile mental state.

      Instead she slept in short bursts throughout the night and the next day, electing to spend the afternoon and early evening in her rented coop, rather than at an impersonal airport.
      When the time came to vacate, to visit the podunk puddle-hopper airport that would bring her to the next leg of her homecoming, she did so without a tinge of remorse or regret. She had depleted her allotment of maudlin emotions for the year, and she was glad to be released from the burden, which had felt for a time to be unbearable.
      Unencumbered by luggage or carry-on bags, Paige drank heavily all the way back to California. As heavily as one dared, and was allowed, in this brave new post 9-11, post-2001 world.
      A part of herself was disgusted to be even remotely associated with what she knew was the machinery of a police state. She knew she was one of the good guys, and that she played a vital role in averaging those unable to prevent their own demise, but Paige still felt dirty by association. Sick.
      At least that's what she blamed her bout of airliner bathroom puking on. There was a reason she smoked heavily, and only drank socially, though.
      Eventually, she dozed, and awoke in the land she had originated from, in the manner of Dorothy Gale. Tomorrow, she would gather her heart, brain and courage from home, and go off to see the wizard. Ms. Kitty would play the part of Toto.
      She'd taken a cab to LAX, since she despised the jock mentality that pervaded every facet of San Diego, in anticipation of not wanting to drive back home. It was money well spent, and she dozed again on the cab ride south to her apartment, paying for her dreams by the mile.
      The next action she was aware of was waking up the next afternoon, hungrier than hell. She consulted her sheet of take-out numbers and ordered sixty dollars worth of gyros, salads and baklava.
      Fuck work, she yawned after she'd eaten more than enough to feed two starving Greek lamb farmers. Maybe she'd go back to her job after the weekend. She was still on vacation time.
      She pulled out her Tupperware container and put it on the coffee table. Paige hesitated to start smoking again already. Instead, she found a myriad of excuses in things she needed to do in order to justify such a magnificent reward.

      She did laundry, washing her bedroom set, and her vacation clothes. She cleaned out her refrigerator, by either eating or throwing away anything close to old.
      Then she restocked her cupboards by going to Whole Paycheck and splurging the economy of a rural Mexican village on every decadent organic delicacy she laid eyes upon. Her shopping cart gave her the appearance of a welfare queen shopping at Wal-Mart on the first of the month.
      While she was lugging bag after weighty bag upstairs to her apartment, Paige realized a male companion had more benefits than she had previously considered. She simply had to stop looking at men as dildos possessing a modicum of artificial intelligence, at best.
      Conversely, she realized, she could expand her potential dating pool beyond cops, criminals and the deceased. Night classes seemed a safe bet, where people would be mostly her own age and social rank, and would also be generally intelligent.
      It was when it became time to make a batch of the smoothies Paige used to ingest her regimen of nutritional supplements that she realized she had yet another task ahead of her. It was time to go to the city of Pomona.
      There was a chemical supply house there that sold dietary-grade potassium by the kilogram. She found out about it via the loose circle of acquaintances she'd met in the course of spending tens of thousands of dollars at Whole Foods over the past few years.
      As unlikely as it would seem from her vacation escapades, Paige was keenly interested in her health, and usually ate accordingly. She was also acutely ashamed of her recent culinary travels and travails.
      The white breads and pastries she had ingested of late were made with bleached flour. White flour, and bleached wheat flour, gained their pristine, illusory ivory appearance via a process involving a chemical known as alloxan.
      Although it wasn't listed as an ingredient, it remained present throughout the baking process, and was so ingested at the end of the food chain of evidence. Alloxan was a chemical used to induce diabetes in lab rats.
      At the same time, Paige was consuming relatively large quantities of aluminum. Used as leavening and an anti-caking agent, aluminum (formerly aluminum, and currently thusly named in the United Kingdom) lodged in

the brain, eventually interfering with electromagnetic functions later in life, leading to Alzheimer's disease.
      The rat and roach poison sodium fluoride was actually a by-product of the aluminum making process. Until the forties and fifties, it was a serious toxic waste problem. Then the ADA helped convince the country that this substance that affected intelligence and higher brain functions while contributing to bone cancers was a good nutritional supplement, leading to healthier teeth.
      Forget that Kentuckians, more heavily fluoridated than even Floridians, had the most dental caries, and the fewest teeth, per capita, in the entire country.
      Due to their relationship, fluoride worked synergistically with aluminum, acting as a receptor key, expediting aluminum's passage through the blood-brain barrier.
      Monosodium glutamate, present in all fast food, chips, Chinese food, etcetera, was an excitoxin.
      Long ago, chefs in the Orient used a small amount of certain seaweed to enhance their recipes. In addition to sweet, salty, bitter and sour, our taste buds have receptors to detect glutamates.
      When MSG contacts the nerve ending of a taste bud, the nerve essentially goes a little crazy. The end results is that MSG-enhanced foods are perceived as tastier than other foods.
      It was also addictive, and was used to induce weight gain in order to study obesity in lab rats.
      At least, Paige thought, she had avoided the neurotoxin Aspartame, with its presumed brain tumors. She hoped she had, at least.
      Aluminum, MSG, Aspartame and toxic, brain-damaging and insanity-inducing mercury were present in vaccines. Not always together, but Paige certainly didn't queue up for flu shots and the like.
      While sodium, in trace amounts, was necessary for cell function, there was no earthly need to add it to our diet.
      The Yanomami indian tribe, land-locked, and essentially without sodium in their diets, received only trace elements via various means. They did, however, eat large amounts of bananas and potatoes, and cooked with ash, thereby receiving megadoses of potassium each day.
      The cellular function of potassium was to facilitate the transfer of sodium out of the body. As a result, the Yanomami had no angina, heart

attack or stroke epidemics, as we did, and did not gain weight as they aged.
      These were the concerns that led Paige to make her fateful sojourn to Pomona on this day.

Chapter 24 - Fate, Tempted
      Having placed several eBay orders to be overnighted, Jean began to shop for thermocyclers. This was sort of an electronic sifting machine for DNA. It allowed one to input a mixed bag of DNA samples and have them neatly sorted electronically.
      He'd always wanted one, anyway. Now he had an excuse. The boom and bust lifestyle of California life guaranteed good deals to be had by all with capital or disposable income.
      He picked up the phone and dialed a number from an online ad and struck gold on the first call. A plasmapheresis lab had just folded. Jean could pick up a slightly used one for eighty-five hundred, or a brand new, packaged unit for ten thousand. They had four in all.
      It was no wonder they went bankrupt, Jean thought. He opted to get a new unit, which seemed best, considering his mission, and arranged to pick it up immediately after work. At 5:30 p.m., he headed down the five freeway.
      Traffic was bad, of course, but Jean had the patience of Job. He busted with a preroll and enjoyed the silence. Occasionally, he cracked his window and listened to the wind speak, or tuned his radio between two stations in order to learn new secrets.
He was ablaze with purpose.
      When he arrived, the parking lot was nearly empty. He backed into a space in front of the door. The owner had promised to wait for Jean, and for ten thousand dollars, he'd damn well better.
      As he was opening the door, a deep rose-colored convertible raced in to park beside him, tires screeching.
      Out jumped one of the most alluring women Jean had ever seen. Although she was clad in sweat pants and a t-shirt with a washing machine on it that said 'Sonic Youth', she out-classed the average Hollywood starlet, hands down.
      She had fiery red hair. Jean strongly supposed she was one of his angels from the future, although she was rather petite.
      Promised as he was to Maxine, he couldn't very well hit on her, but neither could he studiously avoid her. The circumstances dictated his actions.
"Where's the fire?" he asked.

      Paige noticed him for the first time, so intent was she on her current task. She really wanted to get home and burn one.
      "What? Oh, sorry. They're supposed to be closed by now." She gestured at the edifice.
      Jean held the door open for this hurried seraphim, and they entered together.
      The store was a chemist's dream. When Jean made the call, he'd only gotten an address, and had no idea where he was going. It was a two- storey warehouse packed to the gills with every element of the periodic table, packaged for bulk sale. Everywhere Jean looked, he saw chemical symbols, biohazard stickers, and marks indicating radioactivity.
      Nearer the counter, like some sci-fi 7-11, there were rows and rows of beakers, graduated cylinders, glass tubing, and rubber stoppers. It looked like the back lot of some b-movie studio, Troma Film, maybe. Jean looked around for the Toxic Avenger.
      Chivalry wasn't dead in Southern California; it had never arrived there in the first place. Weighing his options, the storeowner bypassed the beauty and her routine minor purchases to cater to his new and wealthy client.
"Jean!" he said loudly, as if to an old friend.
      Paige, undeterred, got a shopping cart and went to the section that housed consumables.
      Jean shook the man's hand, and the two walked into a back room to complete their exchange. When they had emerged, the owner was pushing a dolly with a device slightly smaller than a mini fridge, but clearly much heavier.
"Will this be it?" he asked Jean.
      "Actually..."Jean handed him a short list of chemicals, which the man scanned briefly, them sped off to retrieve. These were items Jean needed to use in conjunction with the thermocycler.
      To pass the time, he watched Paige, who had her potassium and calcium, and was carefully selecting glass globes, rubber gaskets, sections of clear tubing, and a hydrostatic pump the size of a cigarette pack.
      She arrived at the counter just ahead of the proprietor, who bagged the items and slid them toward Jean.
"What's the damage?" Jean asked.

      "Oh! Well, there's no charge for these. Just keep me in mind the next time you need something, Mr..."
"Splicer."
      "Of course. Mr. Splicer. It was a pleasure doing business with you." He again shook Jean's hand, clearly very happy to have unloaded a somewhat obscure piece of lab equipment to the benefit of both.
      Paige wondered what the device was, and if the guy was a good- looking meth cook. LSD chemist, maybe.
      Only when Jean was headed toward the door was the owner's attention refocused on Paige's paltry, sub-two hundred dollar purchase.
      Such was Southern Californian life, Paige thought. They were either gay, in love with themselves, or in love with money. None of them would even procreate, she thought, were it not for appearances and an ego-driven need for heirs. Children were props, here, like dogs that matched your outfit.
      Paige caught up to Jean as he was closing his trunk. He was obviously successful, single, and intelligent. Too bad he almost certainly was a criminal, she thought.
      She spied the Auburn University parking pass on his back window, and felt an odd chill of coincidence pass through her.
      "Jean Splicer, eh? Does Warner Brothers know you're abusing their copyright?" she asked him in mock seriousness.
"Heh," he said. "The guy didn't bat an eye at that one, did he?"
      "Oh, I'm sure he's used to assumed names, in his line of work. Are you off to cop some Sudafed or something, next?"
Jean was rightly insulted. "What are you, a cop?" he asked. "Maybe," Paige replied.
      "Then, yes," he said, "I'm going to make some bath tub crank using discarded Duracells and the corrosion off of my car's battery posts, thus putting at risk my six figure salary so I can make a quick two hundred dollars."
      He pointed at his bumper sticker, which read, "My kid cloned your honor student".
      "Maybe I should stop advertising my credentials before I get busted, eh?" He grinned widely at her.
      "At least your criminal lifestyle affords you a nice car," she said, continuing the charade.

      "What profits a man if he should gain a fly ride and lose his only freedom?" Jean said, with humility. "Quite alright, madam. At times, I wonder if the difference is academic. Ostensibly legitimate chemists ruin far more lives than the illegal variety. I cite Monsanto and Dow as prima facie evidence."
"So, you're a jail house lawyer, too?" Paige asked, smiling.
      "I'm all things to all people," he said. "But my name really is Jean." He extended his hand, which she accepted.
      "Well, Dr. Splicer, are you going to stand around parking lot pimpin' all night or are you going to help an old lady with her groceries?"
      "Cry pardon, m'lady!" he exclaimed. "I'm used to the liberated sort who snarl and sneer when one attempts to render neighborly assistance."
      "Well, I've a lot of cats to feed obviously, pensioner that I am," Paige said.
      "How do I know you aren't brewing absinthe with your Acme Junior Scientist Kit, yourself?" Jean asked, as they both arranged her purchases so the glass items wouldn't break on the ride home. "Or," he said, "Maybe you're a student of Mary Shelly."
      "You smell good," Paige said, getting a whiff of Jean's hydroponic cologne.
      "Why, thank you, Dr. Franhkensteen. I should point out that you, yourself, are more melodiously odiferous than the most highly-prized bouquets in existence."
"Are you going to ask me out, or what?" Paige asked bluntly. "Under any other circumstances, I most certainly would have. Sadly,
regretfully, I find myself both married to my work and promised to another, besides."
Jean offered a sad smile in consolation.
      "Were that not the case, the occasion would find me on bended knee. As I now stand, however, I feel I must vacate, lest I yield to the temptation to betray another, which would leave me unworthy of yourself. I beg of thee, allow me my chastity."
      "Whatever, dude," Paige said, her mock disappointment. "I'll see you around, I hope, the next time we make drug runs."
"I'd like that," Jean said.
      They silently connected, and then parted ways, positively and negatively charged ions, strange attractors, both alike and exactly opposite

of each other. Nature was cruel indeed. Fate, doubly so.
      Were it not for his deep and abiding love for Maxine, Jean certainly would have attempted to court the redheaded stranger. Even now, he felt regret, despite his meaningful affection for his future bride.
      He blamed the predicament on a silly American adherence to a monogamous convention that ran entirely contrary to evolutionary biology. In a more advanced society, like-minded individuals would develop families beyond the nuclear standard of the 1950s.
      In fact, the single man, single woman standard, or even the homosexual equivalent, was crippling, economically and stifling, fundamentally. A trio offered more to each other, to any offspring, and to the world at large.
      Many people dreamed of such things, but few had the determination to make them a reality, in the face of centuries of western peer pressure, he thought. Even himself. It was entirely selfish to want to acquire a second partner while still in negotiations with the first. An unreasonable expectation.
      Besides, he had work to do. In the words of the The Blues Brothers, he was on a mission from God. And he couldn't wait to get home and play with his very expensive tinker toys.
      It never occurred to Jean that he himself was playing God, meddling with biology and human nature, potentially about to upset the natural order of things.
      Even if he had, it would have made no difference at all. His revolutionary zeal was derived from a higher power, and it couldn't be resisted.
He was, after all, the Messiah.
      Or the latest in a long line of Messiahs, at least. It was still pretty cool. Cooler than being in Time Magazine, in fact.

Chapter 25 - The Triumphant Return
      Paige was fuming after her encounter with the impudent smart-ass whose primary flaw seemed to be that he was somewhat immune to her charms. She could only imagine what sort of woman he was entangled with, to the exclusion of herself.
      For the first time in a very long while, she felt genuinely inadequate. She clung to her vague and misdirected anger, lest they give way to tears, sadness and self-recriminations.
      She wanted to binge, badly. To stuff herself to bursting with rich, delicious, calorie-lade foods. Fuck men, she thought, I'll get fat.
      Instead, she exercised a masochistic self-denial. Instead of eating, or going home and getting wrecked, Paige drove to the gym.
      She hadn't brought her sneak-a-toke, either. Paige never worked out without getting high first. But she was already locked into a pattern of self- deprivation when she had left the house, and now she was determined to ride it out, to further punish herself.
      Rather than get fat, she thought, she would get even more attractive. Dress more provocatively. Behave more lasciviously. And maybe, just maybe, no man would ever have her again.
      Her workout was brutal and punishing. She took out her frustrations on herself, and on countless pieces of exercises equipment.
      Paige spent twice her normal time there, and only half of her average shower stay, while Ms. Kitty sat alone in her purse, fuming for other reasons.
      At long last, she felt a bit better. When she returned home, she treated herself to a sizable salad with extra eggs, cheese and nearly a full bottle of dressing.
      She washed this down with a quart or more of spring water, and began to feel fat and angry again. Her loathing was equally divided among women, men and herself.
      Men, for being generally repulsive, yet somehow still vital and necessary, overall. Women, for being in competition with her, and taunting everyone with their beguiling, bewitching beauty. Herself, for being powerless in the face of them both.
      God, she felt weak. It must come with age, she thought. When she was younger, she loved being single, options open, not tied down.

Anymore, she longed to be tied down, physically and figuratively.
Yet here she was, lonely at the top.
      She retrieved her newly acquired wares from the trunk, determined to focus on other things. Paige had a how-to project to complete before she would allow herself any additional reward beyond bitterness.
      When she had laid the components out on a towel she put down to protect the coffee table, Paige got her X-acto knife, and an extension cord. Finally, she got an old bong that was buried deep in a box in her closet, more memento than a utility item, and removed the bowl and stem from it.
      She thought about it, and threw the rest of the bong in the garbage. Memory, Paige decided, could be a crutch. A weakness. She felt weak enough as it was.
      She made a few well-placed holes in the rubber gasket according to the tutorial she printed out from online, being careful not to make them too big.
      The she inserted the gasket into the top of the first globe, and connected the pieces of tubing. Finally, she plugged in the glorified aquarium pump and turned it on.
      It hummed to life, and she tested the suction. Success. Paige began to hum with happiness herself. At least one thing was going well in her life, even if it was some geeky step-by-step how-to.
      She packed the bowl full of blendo, turned on the pump, lit the bowl, and put the top globe over the gasket and bowl. A solid stream of white smoke poured out of the piece of tubing.
      Paige smoked until she was nearly comatose. Even though she shut the pump off with every hit, the entire room roiled with thick, yellow-white smoke. She was higher than hell, and she didn't have to pull on a cone, or roll two ounces of weed to do it.
      She had just lain down on the couch when there was a knock at the door, which she fully ignored.
      There was a second, more insistent, authoritative rap, and Paige had a vague idea that she should answer it.
      She was as tired as she was stoned, and walked, bleary-eyed, to the peephole. "Who is it?" she asked, seeing only a vague shape.
"Internal Affairs."
      Shit! Internal Affairs! She spun on her heels to attempt to tidy up the cloudy living room, and then thought, "Why bother?"

      She opened the door wide, and a large stream of smoke began to pour out. It was a grinning P.J.
"Oh, sorry, Paige. I didn't know you were busy."
      Paige glowered at him, but he was undaunted and stared straight ahead as he spoke.
      "Um, the chief wanted me to swing by and just sort of check and see if you were home. I think he was too embarrassed to call you himself or something."
Her expression softened, but she still didn't say anything.
      "He's been raising hell with everyone all week. Maybe he misses you." P.J, oblivious, smiled at this.
      "In other news, I started taking some classes, like you said. I'm really excited."
Paige noticed that he was carrying four thick college texts with him. "Is this a bad time?"
      "It's just late," she said. "I just got home, I'm pretty tired. That's great about school, Pete."
"So, what should I tell the chief?"
      "Tell him I'll call him soon, or I'll be back in a day or two, before my vacation ends. I just had some loose ends to tie up, here."
      "Alright. I guess I'll see you then. You look great, by the way." And with that, he was on his way, headed back to the stairs and his squad car below.
      Paige watched him leave. Before she closed the door, she looked down and realized she was dressed in a Hello Kitty bra and panty set made for a twelve-year old's body.
Paige went to her bedroom and slept the sleep of the dead.
      The next morning she put her new toy away. Special occasions only, she decided. It was fun, but that was ridiculous. She wondered what the hell
P.J. must have thought was going on.
      She couldn't help but laugh at herself. She had breakfast, answered and read email, and generally farted around, avoiding calling the chief, basically.
      Paige launched Word and considered trying to write something, but drew a blank. It was her understanding that art could rarely be forced, and so she didn't try. When something came to her, she would be ready, and would write. Until then...

She half-considered camming with someone. Her encounter with
P.J. stirred the slumbering exhibitionist side of her, the pride she had of her body mingling with sexual humiliation. It was rather thrilling, and she knew she would seek those feelings out again in the future.
Instead, Paige heaved a sigh and called the boss. "Hey, Terry. This is Paige."
No response. "Paige Burner."
"Burner, you're fired." "What?" she yelped.
      "You're fired, if you don't get your ass back to work soon. I'll fire you, because I'm running out of people to fire. The twelve monkeys we were calling detectives here solve goddamn cases the same way they'd develop a new screenplay for Hamlet. Random goddamn chance. These motherfuckers couldn't solve a suicide with a goddamn note."
Paige attempted to insert an edge-wise word.
"Do you have a case for me?" she managed to ask.
      "I need you to head Investigative Services, Burner. Think you can handle it? Are you ready, goddamnit?"
      She paused. Not because she was unsure of herself, but because she was fairly stunned. She really didn't see this one coming. In fact, she'd subconsciously been trying to get fired, she realized, just for a change of pace. This was better.
"Burner?"
      "I'm ready, Terry," she said evenly. Her mind was already racing ahead, planning and organizing.
      "Good, goddamnit. When you're ready to get serious about a career, be a goddamn lamb and show up at work for a change."
      The chief hung up, but they both knew she'd be at work in the morning, early.
      Paige realized she was so happy and excited, she could hardly contain herself. She danced and twirled around her apartment, singing 'Reignition'. Nothing would remove the smile from her face. Fire her? She was goddamn Paige Burner, goddamnit! Head of Investigative Services.
      The only thing that diminished the impact slightly was when she realized she didn't have anyone to share the news with. Even that thought didn't impact her greatly. She'd never needed anyone before now.

      She couldn't tell Bryce, because he didn't know she was a cop, and she'd need his help in the future. P.J. seemed to already know. The chief definitely knew.
      Everyone else was either a mere acquaintance, or resided on the other side of a burning bridge. Paige put these thoughts out of her mind. She was in charge of the detective division!
      Paige got higher and went on a shopping spree. She bought a new leather briefcase, leather legal-sized binders, engraved Cross pen and pencil sets. She traded in her trusty Treo for the latest model, and bought a sim card duplicator and a new GPS unit.
      She considered ordering a new laptop, but she really, really didn't need one, and wouldn't for years. It would make Bryce envious, though.
      She wanted a new gun too, but decided to order something custom to be made up for her. She was thinking pink-pearl handle, monogrammed, a smart gun that only responded to her. Buying a gun wasn't something she rushed into.
      Paige realized she'd probably get even fewer chances than ever to use one now that she'd gotten promoted. In fact, there was a chance she wouldn't get to leave the office very often, once things were running smoothly in the division.
      Having stocked up on props, she moved on to the wardrobe. Paige spent a sizable fortune and considerable time buying a total of twenty new outfits at six different stores.
      It was all business attire, but each set had an element of sensuality and individuality to it. She was partly inspired by Lucy Liu in 'Charlie's Angels', and partly by the gorgeous Aryan Nazi bitches in the Indiana Jones series. Detective Ilsa of the S.S.
      She also couldn't help but think of every porn actress who'd ever worn business attire before getting banged on a desk, and Maggie Gyllenhaal in 'Secretary'.
      Paige had a great day buying clothes. She'd worn her too-small and tight Hello Kitty set again, and found many opportunities to show them off to salesgirls who gave her admiring appraisals.
      She'd even managed to flash a few otherwise bored husbands who were left alone by their wives, too engrossed in the hunt for bargains to notice their men enchanted by a glimpse of Paige as she modeled various

thongs for a very interested Latina. Paige would change sets, and then open the door wide for the shopgirl's approval.
      By the end of the day, she was aflame with desire. The girl had made no advances, and so neither did Paige. Pity.
      Her last stop was an upscale sex shop. As upscale as a sex shop could be, anyway. She'd left her panties in the car for this one.
      After an hour of browsing and furtive attempts at semi-public masturbation, Paige brought a few items to the clerk, who didn't exactly fuel her fantasies. He popped his gum and read websites, glancing only at her purchases long enough to ring them up, fully ignoring her. Gay, she decided. Or retarded.
      She bought a DVD, for a change, 'Anal Divas In Latex 3'. Jada Fire was crazy hot and nasty. She bought a curved g-spot stimulator, which was shaped like a lobster's tail, sort of, and a large latex fist and arm.
"Want some lube with that?" the clerk asked. "No," Paige replied, "I don't need it."

Chapter 26 - Ouroboros Rising
      The next day Jean worked at a furious pace. Not doing the things he was paid huge sums of money to do, but on his own projects. His work for D-Gen was mostly delegated now.
      He was getting things in order for his first attempt at creating a custom virus. Moving beyond the theoretical, Jean was now stockpiling supplies in order to create a vehicle for delivering what he considered the world's salvation: a disease that would kill the elite psychopaths who polluted Mother Earth, plaguing the rest of mankind like so many devils, flesh and bone.
      Once or twice he found himself thinking about the redhead from Pomona, and trying to dismiss the feeling that it was fate. He'd always felt that way when a particularly delicious piece of ass came his way. God was a pimp of sorts, he felt, and sent you hot sex as a reward for something or another.
      But he had no desire to find her again, and had the unsettling notion that the chance encounter wasn't about sex, but was still some twist of fate. Jean felt considerably more...psychic, lately.
      He wasn't going to cheat on Maxine, anyway. She would be the mother of his children one day, he felt, and infidelity was sure way to ruin a relationship.
      He knew this mainly because he'd used it to intentionally ruin many relationships in the past. Even when he'd been caught accidentally, and patched things up by talking his way out of it, the affair inevitably soured whatever closeness had been reached with the other party.
      Nothing would keep him from a life with Maxxy, just as nothing would thwart his plans to implement paradise on earth. After all, he couldn't very well bring children into a psychopathic society such as the one he currently labored under.
      Jean stole a few germ samples from D-Gen. Stole wasn't really accurate. He simply grew some cultures and divided them in half. If anything, he grew more than he took, leaving the corporation with more samples than they had before.
      He knew the divine wouldn't begrudge him breaking a few commandments in pursuit of higher goals, but lately the very idea of stealing, lying, or cheating disturbed him to his core.

      Never mind that he would soon be killing. Then again, he thought, the virus would be doing the killing, not him.
      Jean's thoughts always came full circle now. They always resolved into perfection, each new thought connecting perfectly to the last one in a neverending sequence, always in synchronous harmony with his calling in life.
      Messiah. It would be frightening if it wasn't all so perfectly engineered by some higher ordered mind. Call it God, or collective unconsciousness, it could not be resisted. The universal will couldn't be ignored once contact was made.
      Jean worked as though he had a holy gun pointed at the back of his head at all times. But instead of being nerve-wrenching, it brought a deep feeling of contentment, of reassurance. He could do no wrong, or he would die.
      Even, dying in service to this great unknown, this faceless divine architect, or group of architects, would be good and right. This, he decided was Nirvana, all day, every day.
      Even his dreams were magical. He'd recently been shown the shape of the universe.
      It was, as some suspected, a hypertoroid. In an existence Homer Simpson could be really appreciative of, we all basically were born, lived and died inside of a giant magical doughnut.
      At the same time, it wasn't a doughnut at all. It was a snake swallowing it own tail. Ouroboros. A beginning without ending, and an existence without any beginning.
      His recent experience with ayahuasca had changed Jean in fundamental ways. The small snakes remained in his brain after he had come down, of course. But he knew that in advance. For the rest of his life, he would always know who his enemies were. It was a gift.
      Which is what puzzled him about the girl he'd met at the chemical supply house. He didn't get the sense she was an enemy, as such, but there was something there, and it wasn't simple chemistry, or animal magnetism.
      It couldn't matter, anyway. He'd probably never see her again. He still talked to Maxxy regularly, and she kept him grounded.
      But he came away from his recent solo flight with something else, besides. He now understood that western culture conspired against the snake, and that there were dark reasons behind this.

      Snakes were possessors of a deep and primal magic. They were the link to our past. No other reptile had such a close relationship with man, not lizards, alligators. Only snakes lived among us, for us, even.
      Without snakes to keep down the vermin, humans would probably never have made it this far. Even, with them, the black plague had decimated the population of old world Europe.
      The connection between reptiles and humans was an obvious one: the human brain. Our pre-frontal cortex, and cerebellum were relatively new additions, evolutionarily speaking. They were wrappers, which encased our medulla oblongata.
      Our reptilian brain, in other words. It controlled anger and fear, our fight or flight responses. These characteristics were part of our psychological make-up, but originated in our reptile predecessors.
      Emotions were high-level responses unique to mammals. So, in a very real sense, psychopaths were reptiles in mammalian clothing. Jean suspected this would prove to be the key in developing his holy hand grenade, which is how he had started thinking of his virus. A devastating weapon that would turn the tide in an otherwise eternal holy war.
      Humans needed balance, of course. Left and right brain. Work and play. Wakefulness and sleep. Reptilian and mammalian responses.
      Only Western culture, it seemed to Jean, feared and reviled the snake, and there had to be reasoning behind it. India, Africa, South America, even the Native American worshipped, or at the very least, respected serpents.
      Western culture, instead, feared and loathed the snake to the degree that the primary tenet of our majority religion since time immemorial seemed to be that snakes represented evil. Ironically enough, humans exhibited a reptilian response toward reptiles.
      And perhaps, Jean thought, reptiles, snakes primarily, did represent evil, in humans. Cold, calculating, without concern, care or compassion for others. But it was a representation, a symbol. Snakes weren't evil, some people were evil.
      As usual, people confused the symbol with the underlying meaning, resulting in all kinds of confusion and cognitive dissonance.
      In a logical world, puppies and kitties would dominate popular culture. Even a casual perusal of the issue reveals that in fact reptiles are far more popular, or occupy more of our consciousness, at the very least.

      Dinosaurs, Sleestaks from "Land of the Lost", movies like Anaconda, "snake eyes", "ride the snake", Jim Morrison as The Lizard King. Lift any rock in popular culture, and you'll find a snake, or at least a reptile lurking there.
A clean-cut case of collective cognitive dissonance.
      Of course, Jean suspected the whole snake fear and attraction could just be shrouded penis envy and worship.
      At any rate, Jean had snakes in his brain now, and he liked it. He understood that they were misunderstood and no longer feared them. Of course, he didn't seem to fear anything at that point.
      He was so in touch with the universe, he sometimes had trouble walking on grass, so aware was he of the implications. Each of us was a destroyer of worlds.
      But you couldn't get anywhere in life by being a devout Buddhist, too respectful of life to kill a fly. No where Jean wanted to go, at least. What's next, germs and viruses with a fundamental right to life?
      Jean couldn't wait to get home and play with his thermocycler. With any luck, he'd have something useful in one of the packages he'd ordered the day before.
      He really had mixed feelings about his first test subjects, but he needed dramatic and surefire results, and a death row inmate was the least morally offensive person he could come up with.
      It was also a test of himself, to see if he could stomach murder. Again, someone who technically probably should already be dead seemed to be the best route to take initially. He could expand outward in concentric circles from there, with each test increasing by an order of magnitude.
Within three runs, Jean would be ready to cleanse the world.
      He had a vague feeling he should visit Pookie again. God helped those that helped themselves, of course. Speak softly and carry high- powered weaponry.
      Just in case. Be prepared, like some thugged-out boy scout. Or a knight templar.
      He spent the rest of the day immersed in the thermocycler's immense set of instruction manuals. He'd used one before, of course, but this one was his. You might know how to drive a car, but when you bought your first new one, you read the owner's manual.

      Besides, he might discover some features he didn't know about in the process. It was a bit too obscure to have a discussion group devoted specifically to it, he'd found.
      And he really didn't feel like wading through the tripe on Google, or the muck of Usenet, only to extract some entirely useless but interesting factoid, after hours dedicated to searching and reading.
      Google would leave him side-tracked, and he had been engrossed in too many technical discussions that devolved into 'meow' or 'snuh' cascades to bother with Usenet unless he had a spare weekend and was feeling sort of wacky. Writers and scientists sure had odd senses of humor.
      When Jean finally got home, there were three packages leaning against his door. He snatched them up and opened them on the kitchen table, under the brightest lights he had.
      The packages Jean had been so excited to receive contained some fingernails, some hair, and a chewed pencil.
All three were purported to be from Charles Manson.
      This, Jean decided, would be a good test of both his new toy, and of the authenticity of these newly acquired collector's items.
      First, he used his microscope and a tiny blade to extract a tooth imprint from the pencil. Then he prepared tinctures from that, a small section of hair, and a portion of a yellowed fingernail.
      Finally, Jean drew some of his own blood. He felt the whole process was taking on a ritualistic air, appropriately enough.
      He put each of the mixtures into separate chambers of the machine, and set it to work. Having done the hard part, he smoked and waited on the results.
      In the meanwhile, he tinkered with AutoCAD. By the time the thermocycler began printing out the results of the analysis, Jean had designed a new pipe.
      He liked smoking in public, at the movies, in the park. Even in California, it wasn't always appropriate behavior. His new design solved that problem.
      It was the size of a Walkman, basically, and could even house an mp3 player or radio tuner. A sliding compartment revealed a ceramic bowl with a spiral heating element in it. There was also a reversible fan, which ultimately fed a small tube that ran alongside some headphone cabling.

      You packed the bowl with weed, and switched it on. The element either burned or vaporized the pot, and the fan helped push it up the tube. Take a hit, switch it off.
      When you were done, and waiting to exhale, you reversed the fan and blew back into the tube.
      The smoke was then diverted through a scented filter, and came out smelling like citrus, or new car, or nothing at all.
      Jean was rather proud of it. Perhaps it would keep a few people out of prison, rather than just enable his smoking habit.
      Assuming it was ever manufactured. Electronic and mechanics were not his forte, unfortunately. If he could design and build, rather than just conceptualize, he'd probably already be a multi-millionaire, instead of a serial killer in training.

Chapter 27 - Shake It Up
      Paige snuck into work the next morning at five a.m. dressed to the nines. Scratch that. If it were at all possible, she was dressed to the elevens.
      Her perfect legs were encased in sheer nylons, her hair in a severe bun. She was clad in a bunny-pink business skirt set with black piping, which was just a tad too short to be strictly business. She carried her shiny new briefcase, full of shiny new things in one hand, and her Alienware laptop tote in the other.
She looked spectacular.
It was truly a pity that no one of note saw her grand reappearance.
      She headed down the hall toward the administration wing of the building where the chief's office sat somewhat intimidatingly at the terminus. She looked to her left as she neared his door and saw "Paige Burner, Director, Investigative Services" painted on the glass.
      She let herself in to find an array of fresh red roses, baby's breath and fern, along with balloons, occupying her new command center.
      There was an oaken desk with a banker's lamp and inbox, a filing cabinet, and a huge, blank whiteboard. Behind the desk was a very expensive and very comfortable Aileron chair.
      Paige shut the door behind her, sat in her new chair and cried tears of joy. She was home. After she'd had a good release, she checked and touched up her light application of make-up and got to work.
      Paige started a to-do list, first, and at the top of this she put "Draft Casefile Database". She labeled the dividers in her empty new filing cabinet, starting with "Personnel", "Current Cases", "Solved Cases", "Cold Cases", "Pending Judgments", and a few others that seemed useful.
      She began to organize the whiteboard in the same manner, listing every detective she could remember down the left-hand side.
      Having exhausted the physical tasks at immediate hand, Paige transferred the flowers and balloon bouquet to atop the cabinet and set up her laptop.
      She acquired a wireless signal, noted that the WEP key still worked, and sent off an email admonishing IT for lax security. Paige didn't intend to lose a case because some tech was lazy, or didn't want to inconvenience anyone.
      Then she sent an email to the records department to begin the process of getting duplicates of the many files she needed. Paige knew

she'd	eventually	drag	the	department	kicking	and	screaming	into	a paperless office, which was an ideal and a misnomer at the same time.
She wanted some hands-on work, now.
      At a quarter to seven, she saw a shadow pass her door from right to left, so she dialed the chief from her landline.
"Hello."
"Chief, this is Paige. I can't make it today. Sorry." "God..."
Click.
Then she stuck her head in his office door. "Gotcha," she said.
He glared for a moment, and then let it go. It was almost goddamned

funny. do it." hours."

"Burner, I don't know what I'm gonna do with you, but I'm gonna "How about you buy me some doughnuts? I've been here for two They walked together in silence to the breakroom, where there were

always coffee and doughnuts, but in the mornings they were naturally at their freshest. Paige made a mental note to add beignets and whole-wheat items to the menu, and maybe some fresh fruit.
      "So," she said, devouring a bear claw, "What's up? Thanks for the new job and office, by the way." She said this casually, but there was a world of meaning behind it.
      "What's up is that Investigative Services is a mess. It's full of incompetent detectives, poor evidence management, and a disappointing win-loss ratio, for starters."
      Paige had never heard the chief string together so many sentences without a "goddamnit" or "motherfucker" and realized she was now his peer, if still technically an underling. She beamed silently with this knowledge as Terry continued to speak.
      "I'm hoping you can do, managerially, what you can do with these otherwise unsolvable cases. Magic, in other words."
"I'll try, boss. I have a few ideas. Who do we have?"
      "You don't have the former jack-off who was in charge, for one thing. Whatever his name was."
"Brad Pittman," Paige said.

      "Yeah. Since firing him didn't make me feel all that much better, I went ahead and fired the two dicks with the worst track record, too."
"Do I get to recruit?" she inquired.
      "You get to do whatever it takes to solve homicides. I'll get you the budget info."
      Paige considered this for a moment, and almost asked about promoting P.J. to detective, then decided against it. She needed someone she could trust in her division, and she didn't want to constantly seek approval for her decisions.
      "So what cases are open right now?" Paige asked. Nearly two weeks had passed since she left.
      "Nothing special right now, Burner. This really must be our slow month, like you said. Apparently that statistical analysis stuff you do really works. I'm from a different era, Paige."
Terry had never, ever addressed her by her first name before.
      He continued, "I got to where I am by punching and pistol-whipping criminals into confessing. This Sherlock Holmes thing you do isn't my style."
She smiled at that.
"But that's what I have you for, right?" Paige nodded politely.
      "I have to oversee all of this mess. Narcotics, vice, internal affairs. Hell, Burner, I'm still a traffic cop. And that's some damn boring paperwork. So that's why you're on the important stuff. I can shuffle paper around better when I know the homicides are being handled properly."
"I really appreciate it, Chief. I'll do my best."
      "You'd better. I'm taking a vacation, now. You're in charge in my absence. Currently, the only open murder cases are under the gang task force division. Use this quiet time to re-organize. I'll see you in two weeks.
Paige felt a little overwhelmed by this newly acquired responsibility. "And Burner?"
"Yeah, boss?"
"Don't call me. Whatever it is, handle it. I'm going to Jamaica." She tried hard to conceal the surprise on her face, and failed.
      "Oh, I used to be like you, Burner. Don't look so shocked. I just grew up when I made detective."
"Have fun, Chiefy," she said.

      "I intend to. Me and the wife will play Bob and Rita in the sun for two weeks. Fun is all we plan to have."
      Terry had apparently planned for today, because he left the breakroom and exited the building.
      Paige hustled back to her office in an adrenaline-fueled panic. Suddenly, she not only had to learn her new job, but she was taking over for the chief, if only temporarily, and he'd been running things for twenty-two years.
      She couldn't decide if he was wise or foolish, but Paige knew it was sink or swim.
      The first thing she did was send for reinforcements. She dialed Human Resources and had P.J. promoted to detective, got a list of the available labor pool emailed to her, and the number of an approved temp agency they used.
      It took a number of "goddamnits" in order to get the point across, that yes, goddamnit, she did have the authority to promote, hire, and fire. It helped that she put that particular emphasis on the word 'fire' and sounded like the chief when she got angry.
      Then Paige emailed all of her detectives and told them to be at the office for a meeting at six a.m. Anyone who wasn't there should find a new job, and not to expect a recommendation from the department.
      She figured any detectives that didn't use their email accounts regularly probably weren't worth a damn. And if they weren't team players, the others wouldn't bother telling them about the meeting.
      I might as well cut out the deadwood first thing, she thought, before things get busy around here again.
      She called P.J. at the end of his shift and asked him to come by the office on his way home, but she didn't say why.
      Paige didn't see any superstars on the team, but neither did the names of any obvious dead weight jump out at her. She supposed she should start fresh, anyway. It's not like the department was in great shape in the first place, or she wouldn't have a new job.
      It was too late to catch any one at the temp agency, but she left a detailed message explaining what she needed. Basically, she wanted two highly computer literate personal assistants with no criminal records of significance, and she needed them tomorrow.

      Paige grabbed all of Terry's paperwork from his desk and studied it, trying to get a feel for what she'd have to be doing, the decisions she's have to make.
      She was relieved to see it was mostly standard stuff, shift change request, situation reports, departmental updates and the like. Otherwise, she'd be really overwhelmed right now.
      On the other hand, it gave her an overview of the entire process, a bird's eye view of how things worked. The latent software engineer in her twitched at the room for improvement apparent in the untenable process of paper shuffling.
      Paige was about to start outlining major areas of rapid application development when P.J. knocked on the office door.
"Chief?"
      "Come in, Pete," Paige said. She wondered why he didn't knock on her office door first, and understood he had probably walked right past it. Not very observant, but under the circumstances, she was willing to let it go. Maybe it was habit, or the fact that the chief's office light was on and hers was not.
"Hey, Paige! Is the chief alright?" Peter asked, concerned.
      "He's fine, Peej. He's on vacation." P.J.'s shoulders slumped slightly at this news, relieved.
"That's good. He's getting old, and I thought..." "Nope. He's a-ok. Want a job, Peter?"
"Here?" he asked, incredulous.
      "Well, you'll have a desk in the building somewhere, but you'll be in the field, mostly."
"Detective work, Paige?"
"You catch on straight away, P.J." Paige said, grinning. "Gosh. Of course. I don't feel ready."
      "I'll put you with someone else to train. But I need someone with half a brain that I can trust."
      "I'm your guy, boss." P.J. had already shifted Paige from peer and friend to overseer. A good sign. "My half a brain, such as it is, is a loyal one."
      "Heh," Paige said. "You know what I mean. You're smart, you follow procedure, and you don't have an agenda. You'll be my inside man. Keep me informed."

"I can do that."
      "Great. There's a pay increase, a promotion in rank, and an unmarked car waiting for you in the morning. Stop by HR tomorrow at five
a.m. and then come see me. There's a detective's meeting at six."
      "Wow. I'm stunned. I can't wait to tell my wife! She hates me working the streets. She worries too much."
      "Your life's changing for the better, Pete. Detectives rarely get killed in the line of duty. Still, you'll be doing investigative work, and the people you encounter have a lot to lose, at times. Don't get complacent."
"I won't, believe me. How can I ever repay you?" P.J. asked.
      "Just do your best. You can hang out with me tomorrow and we'll learn the ropes together. When a juicy new assignment comes along, you can tag along and see what you can come up with."
      "Will do, boss." Peter extended his hand across Terry's desk, and they sealed the deal with a handshake.
Paige knew she'd made a good decision.

Chapter 28 - So It Begins
      Jean stayed up way too late that night, but he'd learned a number of very useful things. Things that moved his plans further along. It was lucky for him that he never needed more that four hours of sleep anymore, and could often get by on two.
      For one thing, one of the three purported tissue samples from Charles Manson was a fake. The triple-blind test he'd run had established that.
      The thermocycler had returned three unique signatures from four samples. Since the three samples had come from independent sources, and Jean was reasonably sure he wasn't Charles Manson, Charles Manson's father, or Valentine Michael Manson aka Pooh-Bear, Manson's son, it was safe to conclude that one tissue sample was fraudulent.
      Like any good geek, Jean was on eBay publically voicing his displeasure, and lowering the offender's rating with a lengthy diatribe backed by voluminous incontrovertible facts.
      Feeling only a tad better about being ripped off, he did some rudimentary mapping, and realized it was a blessing in disguise, of sorts. The negative result reinforced the other two, making Jean confident in the authenticity of the other two samples.
      There was a brisk trade in serial killer mementos and keepsakes, and Jean thought that if he had endless time, he could eliminate that strain of human deitrus. No matter what Howard Bloom and others postulated, Jean felt any evolutionary benefit derived from the presence of such monsters was out weighed by their negative impact on society.
      The irony was not lost on Jean. The difference was, he was going to be beneficial to society. Or, such was his belief. Rationalization or not, without being convinced of this, he could not go forward.
      Unless he was impelled by some higher power, of course. And it was really difficult to tell, after a time, where he ended and the overmind began. So he tended to dismiss questions of morality, at that point, and simply do.
      The other interesting thing Jean learned in the lab at work the next day was that Charles Manson was not a psychopath. Or, rather, not a genetic psychopath.
      Psychopaths, like homosexuals, were both born and made. One could inherit a dominant or recessive gene that would be the primary

influence on your psycho-physio make-up, which was the most common route, or either behavior could be induced via external means.
      What many hadn't realized, Jean included, was that both conditions had been imposed upon Manson at an early age.
      Actually, Manson may have been born gay or bisexual, but it was an area of study Jean had avoided. He knew others were working to isolate the genes that determined homosexuality, and that such knowledge would inevitably be abused. He saw no reason to advance research in that direction.
      Regardless, Charles Manson had been violently raped as early as age nine, and possible before that. Probably, in fact. But Manson himself retained knowledge of this event, as detailed in Ed Sanders' book 'The Family'.
      So, in all likelihood, Manson's psychopathy, also touched upon in Sanders' pivotal study, stemmed from the same events. Being raped, being raised by a whore, pimps and johns, being institionalized and dehumanized, all at early, formative stages of his life greatly contributed to his psychological make-up.
      While there were undoubtedly genetic co-factors, detailed analysis of Manson's DNA in comparison to Jean's larger collection of believed psychopathic genes led him to conclude that Manson's mindset was imposed from without, and wasn't genetic in origin.
      Strangely enough, instead of dissuading Jean from using Manson as a test subject, it strengthened his resolve. If it worked, he would be doing the man a favor. In fact, society as whole might suffer from the loss, but Jean's sympathy for his plight made him determined to end his life.
      The specifics of the virus Jean developed were brilliant, and would have made him an invaluable asset to any superpower or group of elite interested in genocide.
      It also would have gotten him killed once he had out-lived his usefulness to them, he knew. There were a huge number of biologists, virologist and genetic researchers who had died in a cluster in the past few years. A war was brewing and Jean knew he was on the side of good.
      Specifically, Jean had combined elements of Ebola, the influenza virus, and Manson's unique genetic footprint into a specialized killing machine.

      Ironically, he owed most of the credit to various government agencies and groups. They had provided Jean with the tools and research he needed to destroy them.
      From Ebola, he had isolated the organ liquefaction process, now specifically tuned to attack only the liver. Ebola had long since been believed to be lab created in the first place, much as AIDS had proven to be. According to the Congressional Record, the Department of Defense,
by way of the Army, requested ten million dollars in 1969 in order to develop a bioweapon that would attack the immune system. Naturally, the request was granted.
      Within a few years, the World Health Organization published articles stating a need for the same, on the grounds that the U.S. needed to develop a defense against such a weapon.
      According to their own literature, the WHO inoculated ten thousand children in what is now known as the AIDS belt of Africa for small pox. It is there that AIDS made its debut on the world stage.
      The WHO acknowledges that this occurred, but maintains it was a mysterious oversight, for which they cannot be held accountable.
      In the late seventies and early eighties, a program to inoculate young, promiscuous gay men with an experimental hepatitis vaccine was rolled out in major cities across America.
      These incidents, along with some work in Haiti, led to the current epidemic. It was also the reason AIDS was primarily a hetero problem in Africa, but became considered a gay disease in the U.S.
      In reality, it was an equal-opportunity bioweapon. Jean suspected Ebola was similarly developed because AIDS, a combination of a cancer- causing cattle disease spliced with the sheep-affecting visna virus, operated far too slowly.
      Which is why Jean himself selected Ebola as a precursor. It worked in days, not months or years.
      He didn't have access to the entire Ebola chain, of course, but he did have enough of it for his purposes, as a result of his unique position at work, and as a USC research fellow.
      Better yet, thousands of researchers had access to the same components, making detection unlikely.
      The influenza family was selected for its recombinant abilities, which were critical to insuring the virus would spread to its intended target,

rather than being killed shortly after it was launched.
      On the other hand, it was somewhat controllable, unlike the common cold. His biggest fear was a mutation that would get out of control and kill millions.
      Which is why the early experiment would target a specific individual.
      It was a technique he had picked up from the Israelis, who had purportedly targeted Arabs, solely. This was a significant leap forward in biowarfare, as Arabs and Ashkenazi Jews were genetically almost indistinguishable.
      Jean simply culled enough of Manson's DNA sequence until he was reasonably sure it would only be fatal to him.
Reasonably sure.
      It was a risk he had to take. Jean would be the first to carry the test case. Everything came together when he found out Manson would be making another appeal.
      Ordinarily, he only made appearances before the parole board, where he was summarily denied without consideration.
      In an unprecedented twist of fate, an upstart defense lawyer hoped to follow Melvin Belli and Johnny Cochran's shortcut route to fame by defending a celebrity against impossible odds.
      Naturally, this was all over the press. But thanks to Google News alerts, Jean had a headstart. In reality, it just moved his plans forward, and saved him a drive up north to visit the prison in which Manson resided.
      In a bigger sense, this non-coincidence only confirmed to Jean that he was carrying our God's will. He was unstoppable, a demigod wielding a fiery sword he had himself forged according to heavenly instruction.
      A prophet with attitude. Had Moses had such knowledge and resources at his disposal, the entire Bible would have been written differently.
      At the end of a long Sunday at USC, at the end of a long week, in a series of long months, Jean was ready to make the leap from theory to practice.
      He injected himself with his creation and went home to wait for symptoms.
      Two days later, he was a puking, sneezing, shitting mess, right on schedule. Jean only hoped he wasn't dying himself. He certainly felt like he

was. week.

It was definitely justification for missing work for the rest of the The next day, the day of the hearing, Jean was as sick as ever. In

fact, he felt even worse than the day before. The things we do for love, he thought. It was a strain just to get out of bed, much less get down to the
L.A. county courthouse. He managed with the help of pot, caffeine and Dayquil.
      He arrived early in order to assess the situation. Jean made inquiries while trying not to draw attention to himself. He was innocuously dressed, polite but not memorably so, and gave absolutely no indication that was sick. That was the difficult part.
      He found out that the hearing was to be held on the third floor at ten-thirty, room 346. Private hearing, of course, police, press and court employees only. Press credentials would have been ideal.
      His opportunity arose in the form of a bored young hipster guard who'd been assigned to work the door of the courtroom. Although burdened with a cop's gear, handcuffs, gun, taser, he really didn't put our cop attitude, which made him a good choice to approach. The fact that his hands touched both doorknobs constantly sealed his fate.
      When Jean got closer, he saw that this was not an ordinary cop, even by L.A's lax standards. Each forearm bore detailed shamrock tattoos, inexplicably linked to monkeys, whose tails curved around the underside of his arms, connecting the two images.
      He gave the impression of someone who was working his way through school as a security guard, and his nametag read, "I. Hayes."
      Jean went to the bathroom and sneezed heartily on both of his hands, fanning them dry, but resisting the urge to wipe them on his pants or anything else.
      He approached with what he hoped was the proper amount of deference. "Excuse me, officer...Hayes, is it?"
"Ira."
      "Ira, hi." Jean said. "Can you tell me where the civil courts are located?"
"Erm, there's no civil section, just a bunch of random courtrooms.
Let me guess, divorce?"

      Jean brightened at this new misdirection. "Right, divorce. That obvious, eh?"
      "Either that or some lawsuit, and you lack the air of a man litigious. Go down to reception, the round desk in the lobby. There's a chick with big tits, she looks a little like Monica Lewinsky, but hotter. She'll find you on the docket."
      Jean resisted the urge to ask about the Manson case, and it was difficult. He extended his hand. "Thanks a lot, Ira, I really appreciate it."
      Officer Ira Hayes extended his hand in return, and three days later, Charles Manson died in his sleep, after a bout with the flu.
Jean felt he had put the man out of his misery.

Chapter 29 - Unintended Consequences
      For the next few days, Paige's life was quiet, hectic, and fulfilling. Her first detective's meeting had gone well. One of the remaining nine dicks hadn't shown, and Paige, intimately familiar with the track records of each, summarily fired him on the spot, in absentia.
      This set the tone, and grumbling and grousing was kept to a minimum. Paige had to deal with a few catcalls and wolf whistles, at worst. She was generally well-liked in Investigative Services, and no matter what any of them thought about her, she got results.
      When HR failed to yielding any suitable replacements, Paige ran a few ads on her own, hoping to recruit from outside the force's incestuous little gene pool. Ultimately, she hired two new recruits, one from Ventura County, and another from San Diego. She didn't hold his city of origin against him, in the end.
      She really lucked out with the temp agency. They recruiter sent her an eye-popping pair of resumes. John and Lisa Chang were Chinese- American twins.
      Both had administrative assistants experience, both had strong IT backgrounds. John was a database analyst, and Lisa, a criminal justice major. They were working their way through school, and each had a spotless criminal record.
      Better yet, they performed as a single unit. Only politeness kept them from finishing each other's sentences.
      Lisa immediately began fielding phone calls, handling all of the routine paperwork, and generally took over the chief's office in his absence. Her only drawback was that she was so attractive she impeded productivity, as suddenly every officer in the force needed something signed, stamped, duplicated or mailed.
      Paige was relieved to have her, if only a tiny bit jealous. The truth of the matter was Paige was their boss around the station, and was considered one of the boys anyway. She mostly knew that, and would have spurned the attention anyway, but a deep feminine instinct tried to make her dislike Lisa, regardless.
      Paige showed John Chang what she was trying to achieve with her database, and the troubles she was having. She showed him her notes and outline, and what she'd designed in Access, so far.

      It really wasn't working for her. She'd never written anything this large and comprehensive. It encompassed timesheets, budgeting, caseloads, statistical analysis, promotions, and a lot more. Or at least Paige wanted it to. It was an ambitious project.
"Well, there are a few problems with this model, Mrs. Burner." "Please, call me Chief," Paige said, suppressing a grin.
      "Well, Chief," John said, emphasizing the word as to indicate he caught her joke despite her best effort to make it a private one. "You first of all have to normalize the database."
"Is it abnormal, now?" Paige asked, kidding.
      "Actually, yes. The first normal form dictates that each table have a key field, and no table should contain any duplicates from any other table. It's redundant, and hinders development. Normalization is the first step in writing a DB. Without it, we can't proceed."
"So, what should we do?"
      John's hand flew over the keyboard, and all of Paige's existing tables were dumped to the HP. Then he saved her work, closed it, and started a new project.
"I think we need to start over."
      Paige groaned. All of her hard work, wasted. On the plus side, she could tell John really knew what he was doing, and the department was getting critical custom software written for less than what a Burger King manager made per week.
      John's intellect reminded her of Bryce, and it was lucky for her that she wasn't particularly attracted to Asian men. Otherwise she'd have real trouble keeping her mind on her work. Throw the sister in on the deal, however... No, Paige had to stay focused.
      To her slight dismay, John wasn't the least bit distracted by her.He showed Paige how to map her ideas on the whiteboard, first.
      "A hierarchical list, or outline, while suitable for organizing your thoughts, doesn't lend itself to the non-linear nature of database design," John intoned with the patience of a seasoned lecturer. "The relationships between tables are complex, and not always readily apparent when laid out sequentially."
      Soon the whiteboard was a mass of circles and squares, each labeled with fields written below them, and a wild tornado of arrows connecting

them. It looked like ten year's worth of hurricane tracking charts, but it also made sense.
      By the end of the day, John had a functional prototype up and running, and Paige was wondering how she could convince the pair to join the force.
      P.J. was mostly in the way, and after Paige had taught him what she could about procedure she assigned him to assist a senior detective, and told him to go buy some cheap suits to be ready for his first day in the field.
He was elated.
      At the end of her third day as surrogate chief, Paige's customized new Glock arrived. From a geek standpoint, John was intrigued by the mechanism that prevented anyone else from using it, and was duly impressed.
      Lisa said she didn't know guns could look both powerful and feminine, but it clearly made her a little nervous. Maybe it was the way Paige looked at her while holding it.
      Paige couldn't wait to get out to a shooting range and break it in. She dissembled it, cleaned it, and generally fondled it at home that night. It was all she could do not to put a condom on it.
      She was getting high when the ten o'clock news came on. Charles Manson had apparently died of old age in his sleep. Paige didn't shed any tears for him, but did think he had gotten a raw deal in life, early on. Still, that was no excuse for murder, especially a pregnant woman.
      She wondered how he had survived in prison for so long, anyway. It must have been his celebrity status, she thought, which was pretty sick.
      Things were going so smoothly, Paige began to feel superfluous. The twins had readily adapted to the department, and the department had adopted them. They stayed busy and were saving for school, so they were happy to help out.
      Industrious as they were, each recognized the opportunity to enhance their resumes, and seized every chance to also expand their repertoires.
      Paige was actually relieved when two days later, there was an apparent murder-robbery in the foothills near Riverside, and no one was available to handle the crimescene.
She called P.J. and gave him the location so he could meet her there.

      The estate was massive and gated, with a thoroughly modern security system in place. There were cameras visible in outdoor Pelco housings, motion detectors, even a pair of Doberman Pinschers.
      Paige considered waiting for P.J, but she didn't want to waste a minute's time. The longer a crime scene was left unattended, the greater the chance evidence would be lost or disturbed.
      She had no confidence in the ability of a pair of uniformed officers to secure a crime scene, especially one as big as this one.
      The dead man was named Carl Cameron, and he was some sort of financial Mogul. Apparently he was out of Paige's league, which was strictly Motley Fool, MSNBC middle-tier material, augmented by her own considerable knowledge of social-historical trends and technology.
      This guy was big league, blue chips, and pricey, high performance mutual funds. A Carlysle Group investor, war profiteers whose minimum investment was fifty thousand dollars. War was always profitable for some, and full of tragic losses for the rest of us. Paige would never invest her money that way, even is she could afford to.
      But, in this guy's case, it had definitely paid off. What it hadn't done, however, was save his life. Like, lobster lady, there was no visible sign of trauma. Less, even, as this guy hadn't even hit his head.
      Paige didn't really like what she considered coroner cases, where the cause of death wouldn't be known for days. She decided to dig deeper.
      The servants all told the same story, the old man had been sick with the flu for two days, and then seemed to have gotten better. They all appeared sincere.
      The gardener was the least helpful, but Paige figured the guy had a record. The stories corroborated, but not so uniformly as the raise suspicion.
      When P.J. arrived, Paige left him to take witness statements while she explored the house and grounds.
      She wandered more or less without purpose. The house was historic, nearly one hundred years old, and had a vaguely claustrophobic feel, and was decorated as if by a weird old aunt.
      She made her way down to the basement level, where there were more copper pipes than she imagined were in a lot of buildings. Paige counted six four-inch lines. Someone had definitely oversold this guy on the plumbing and HVAC.

      She knew a little bit about the cost of copper and the associated installation from her family, and oddly enough, that gave her a more real sense of the wealth she was dealing with than the d�cor, which she found to be somewhat tacky.
      She elected to go upstairs, and then work her way back down, looking for anything amiss.
      The body was still warm, and Paige didn't see anything that looked out of place. No jewelry boxes, safes or collectibles seem to have been disturbed. The servants would probably have prevented each other from committing crimes of opportunity.
      She briefly examined what seemed like a hundred rooms on her way back down, each as cramped and over-decorated as the last. It was a veritable museum of bad taste and cramped construction. Paige would have gutted the interior, torn out half of the walls and gone ultra-modern, just to exorcise the lace doily demons that obviously dwelled there.
      She eventually made her way back to the ground floor, and spent time in the property manager's office, kitchen and garage before walking the front entrance hallway back to the study where the body lay.
By then, Paige had cause to arrest the three servants for grand theft.
      Fearing the gardener would run or commit violence in an attempt to escape, she drew her new handgun with the mouthless cartoon cat engraved on the pink palm rest.
      "Cuff 'em Peter," Paige said when she entered the room. Panic spread over the faces of the females, the maid and property manager, but the gardener remained impassive.
With Paige's .45 fixed on him, he made no attempt to flee.
"Where are the paintings?" Paige asked, and the maid began crying.
      They had made some attempt to disguise it, but Paige noticed the outlines in the main hall where two large picture frames, and a cluster of smaller ones had hung for years.
      The screws had been removed from the walls, and the resultant holes filled in, but the wood behind where the paintings sat told the tale, being a shade or two darker than the bare walls.
The maid continued her emotional outburst.
"I dinna wanna steal them. They say for me to be quiet." "Again, where are they?"
"In the study, una the sofa."

      In the study, Paige knelt down two feet from the corpse and looked under the couch. She pulled out two large picture frames, and a series of smaller ones.
      The smaller set contained photos and letters of someone Paige recognized as Che Guevara, the Cuban revolutionary leader.
      The first large frame was a photo of a stern old man Paige didn't recognize. She later found out it was one of only three photographs of industrialist J.P. Morgan in the entire world.
The last was both stunning and heart breaking.
      It was a photo of Marilyn Monroe that had never been seen by the public. She was dressed as glamorously as always but she was clearly drunk and high on pills. She was practically drooling. The pain of a little girl lost was all over her face. A tragic picture worth far more than a thousand words.
It was also worth a small fortune to private collectors, no doubt.
      Paige returned to where P.J. and the uniformed officers had the three suspects handcuffed and corralled.
"So where's the statuette?" Paige asked no one in particular.
      "You took the Rodin, you asshole?" the property manager hissed at the gardener, who said nothing.
      Paige had heard enough. She unlocked the maid's cuffs, and explained that although she would be brought in for questioning, she probably wouldn't be charged with the other two. As far as she was concerned, the maid had been threatened and coerced into cooperating after the fact.
The uniformed officers led the three away to waiting squad cars. Paige called for the coroner and an investigative back up team.
      Two hours later, they retrieved an original piece by the sculptor Rodin form the bottom of a shallow fishpond. It was estimated to be worth
$350,000, and probably would have fetched half of that on the black market.
      Paige showed Peter the dust-free square on the coffee table where the pedestal of the statuette had previously sat. They took photographs of this and the spots where the photos and picture frames had hung.
      For good measure, they also got samples of the plaster, still wet, that were to cover-up the theft, and eventually found what they believed to be the actual screws that were removed from the wall.

      Forensics would match the wood from the wall to the screws, Paige knew. Although she felt good about the case, she didn't have the chief to call for praise, so it was a little anti-climatic, for her.
P.J. was duly impressed with her prowess, at least.
      The duo were charged with criminal conspiracy and grand theft, but Paige didn't get the impression that murder was a part of the crime, so the charge was withheld, pending a report from the coroner's office.
      Peter and Paige returned to the office to find the Chang twins running the show in a model of efficiency.

Chapter 30 - Onward and Upward
      Jean was still recovering from his custom flu virus when news of Manson's death was splattered across the major news channels. The media loved it.
      The media loved anything that distracted people from the war and the economy, and how the two problems were intrinsically linked. With this, they had a field day.
      The story had had it all; sex, murder, drugs, nostalgia, revenge. Vincent Bugliosi, all pomp and smugness, gloated over the death of his imagined adversary, oblivious to the fact of how shamelessly he himself had exploited the tragedy for his own personal benefit.
      Sharon Tate's aging mother said Manson's death was delivered by God himself, revenge for the brutal death of her daughter and others. Jean thought she was half right, but a little misguided all the same, because of the thirty-nine year delay between the murders and Manson's death.
      Somewhere in Washington State, a rechristened Valentine Michael Manson was recovering from the flu, and didn't shed a tear for the man who had irresponsibly sired and then abandoned him. Pooh Bear, now Christopher Waldo Emerson, would be visited upon by the sins of his father for the rest of his life. Roman Polanski elected to make no statement of any kind.
      The test had been a smashing success all around, in Jean's mind. Society was uplifted by the news that justice had been belatedly delivered, however misguided the notion. A kindred spirit had been releases from this mortal coil, no longer imprisoned by the society and institutions that had created and betrayed him.
      And, best of all, the viral formula had worked. It had worked a little too well, actually. The CDC was issuing reports of a new flu strain that was sweeping the country.
      As far as Jean could tell, only Manson had died from liver failure, but some seventeen elderly or otherwise infirmed people died in the U.S. before the test case burned itself out in the Midwest.
      Survival of the fittest, Jean thought. Besides, it gave him the opportunity to study transmission rates and infection patterns. It was all additional research material he would incorporate into the next test case, as well as his planned third and final iteration.

      Jean named the virus Captain Trips, in homage to the engineered virus in Stephen King's 'The Stand'.
      The next version was to be the most critical. Rather than targeting a specific individual, this batch would attack those bearing the so-called fascist gene.
      The problem, at this point, was one of communicability. It was critical, at that point, that the virus not spread beyond Jean's intended victims.
      For one thing, Jean had no desire to kill more innocent people, no matter if they were near death on their own or not.
      More to the point, he didn't want to unleash this unprecedented plague without letting the world know exactly what was happening and why.
      He developed the next batches in parallel, sharply limiting the communicability of one, while enhancing the other. The first was to be a surgical strike, an opening salvo, intended to send a message.
      The second, and last, was to be a pandemic, a global holocaust of biblical proportions.
      Jean had no plans to tamper with Mother Nature beyond that. If he got away with it, the entire planet would be changed forever. In his mind, it would be a great leap toward paradise on Earth.
      When Jean felt he had his new formulas perfected, he hand-drafted a message to the world: "End all tyranny, over the minds of men. Restore the Republic, and human freedom. Keep your laws off of our bodies. Man- made laws made man lost. Renounce oppression immediately, or face the wrath of Captain Trips. - Messiah."
      He knew this was wasted effort, merely a symbolic gesture toward freedom. Those who would limit human rights would never voluntarily relinquish their control.
      It would, however, strike fear in their hearts, and implant hope in those with the moral and intellectual capacity to desire the most freedom for the greatest possible number of people.
      Jean knew many stood at the ready waiting for such a situation to arise. They would seize the reins of power from the hands of the fallen, and steer the world back to a far less totalitarian future.
      He wondered if men at large deserved freedom, seeing as how the majority had rejected it, and instead seemed to have embraced oppression

of their spirit, flourished under it, even.
      It was the eternal struggle, Jean knew. At least humans might gain a few centuries of freedom, and a headstart against future repressions.
      Ponerology and psychopathy would certainly get a lot more attention after this. As it currently stood, books on ponerology were routinely stolen from university library shelves, and probably destroyed.
      Apparently, some of these monsters were fully aware of what they were, and feared detection. As messiah, Jean would shift the balance away from this secret brotherhood.
He took pains to cover his tracks with his message to the media.
      Jean knew modern printers had embedded signatures to help track counterfeiters, kidnappers and the like. In Jean's case, the solution was simple.
      He purchased an ancient dot matrix printer from a Commodore 64 user group swap meet. Jean was just another anonymous geek in a crowd of some thirty eight-bit enthusiasts.
      Better, yet, it came with a half of a box of yellowing tractor paper. He had to use DOSbox, an MS-DOS emulator, to actually get the printer to work, but Jean printed three copies, with only slightly different wordings.
      The idea was to insure it was printed by at least one major newspaper by distributing it to three of them. It would be too easy for an editor, or perhaps the FBI, to squash one copy, in an effort to avoid a panic.
      When he was satisfied with the printouts, Jean burned the remaining paper and the box in his BBQ grill on his back patio, and then scattered the ashes.
      The printer was painstakingly dissembled by hand, each screw removed one by one. Every component ended up in dumpsters in various small towns in the area. If Jean got caught, it wouldn't be due to carelessness. He used the facilities at work to sterilize the printouts, which had only been handled with gloves, anyway.
At last, Jean felt he was ready for phase two of the operation.
      He had an inkling that his next move would bring the heavies to town. Obscurity was his primary advantage, currently. The gene sequence he was targeting was as of yet undiscovered. It would only be a matter of time, though, before the big boys took issue with him infringing on their territory.

      So it was going to be a race, from this point on. They couldn't very well inoculate all of the world's leaders, captains of industry, majors, generals, and heads of state. All they could do is try and stop him before the third vial was broken, to borrow some imagery.
      That weekend Jean booked a hotel suite in San Diego, checked in, then headed for San Francisco.
      On the drive up, he swung by Pookie's in a deep blue rented Cadillac.
"What's up, cousin?" Pook asked.
"Not much, my man. On my way up north, and I wanted to talk

metal."


"Like, Slayer and shit?"
"Peace through superior firepower."
"Word? Maxxy said you're kind of a nerd. That's pretty hip. A

weed-smokin, gun-slingin, white boy who's not a wigger, with advanced degrees. That's a lethal combo."
"I just want a little added insurance in my life. I have no plans to use
it."
"Would you like automatic insurance, semi-automatic or manual?"
Pookie asked.
      "I was thinking .380, double-action, perhaps one that wouldn't involve some tedious registration process and waiting period."
"Damn. You need me to forge a concealed carry permit, too?"
      Jean laughed. "I hope to never get popped with it," he said. "It's just for special occasions."
      "Hey man, that yo' business. I'm just trying to cover all the bases. Explore the options. Provide an enjoyable one-stop shopping experience. By the way, how was your freak out?"
      "Oh, that, it was...real crazy. Hard to describe. Thanks for coming through. Wild stuff."
"I know. I did some two weekends ago..." "Were there..." Jean started to ask.
      "Snake? Yeah. Big motherfuckers, little ones, some whales or dinosaurs or something, too."
"Did your head split open?"
      "You know this," Pookie replied. "I got snakes in my head like a bad Samuel Jackson movie. That's why I know I can trust you, fully. It's really

helped me in my current line of work...a few bad apples have been plucked."
      Pookie dialed his cell phone, which Jean noted was an entirely different make and model from the last time he was here. "Percy," Pook said, "Want to play checkers?"
      Jean thought Percy was a funny name for a thug, but he kept this to himself. Which was just as well. Percy turned out to be nearly seven feet tall, and of a build that looked like he could rip Mike Tyson's head clean off.
      He pointedly ignored Jean completely as he and Pookie talked business in low whispers.
Percy turned to Jean. "Gimme three fiddy."
      Jean could only think of Chef from 'South Park,' and very nearly laughed out loud. Instead, he maintained his game face, and dished four bills into Percy's gigantic hand.
      Percy then left without another word to either of them. Jean knew by now to leave his car unlocked. Any car parked in front of Pookie's was protected, anyway. It was safer here than in a police impound lot.
After ten minutes of chit-chat, Pook said, "Ok. You're straight." "Thanks, as always, Uncle Pook," Jean said.
"Just be careful with that pea-shooter."
      "I will, man. Maxxine's coming in less than two months to visit. No way I'd miss that."
      When Jean was near the Ventura county line he stopped for coffee and checked out the alligator skin briefcase on his seat.
      Three hundred fifty dollars bought enormous value in the underground economy. Inside was an ivory-handled pistol that was more than likely never fired before, nested in a red velvet lining. It was loaded, with two more clips and a full box of ammo besides.
      Jean was loaded for bear. He turned the gun over in the light and saw that the serial number was scratched off.
Very nice, indeed.

Chapter 31 - No Such Thing as Coincidence
      The next day Paige kept P.J. at the office to take him the rest of the way through a murder investigation. She started by making him do all of the paperwork.
      John Chang was converting all of the forms to editable PDF format, but for now his sister had grouped the necessary forms into individual packets. That alone saved time and eliminated errors. And in this line of work, a simple procedural mistake could mean a killer went free, in a worst- case scenario.
      She let P.J. work opposite her on her desk while John and Lisa deconstructed police procedure in the chief's office. Occasionally, he had a question, but for the most part he was able to do it on his own, which was a good sign.
      Currently, John was creating a subset of the database that was of his own devising. He said it was patterned after FogBugs, a bug-tracking database used by some programmers.
      Essentially it had a public and private face. Detectives could access a portion of it via the web, at home or in the office, and contribute to the knowledge base of a particular case. This part was password protected and searchable, so cases, victims and witnesses could be cross-referenced.
      Paige could already see how useful this would soon become, and could imagine it one day helping to solve a case.
      The other half of this modified bug-tracking concept was a public face. John got with IT and was given server access so that he could write a web front end for it. Paige thought this meant HTML, but no, John said it was actually PHP-Nuke, and she was in no position to learn the nuances right now.
      John assured her it was kid's stuff, and she'd be able to modify it in the future. She glanced at the source over his shoulder once, and was skeptical.
      The public end of it was different, again. Regular people couldn't be allowed access to the details of murder investigations, for obvious reasons.
      The public information, such as was available from the newspaper, provided the framework. Citizens could flip through pending investigations, and provide information either by name, or anonymously. Either way, tipsters were anonymized by giving them unique PIN numbers.

      John and Paige agreed that anonymity could encourage some individuals to contribute more candidly. Once their personal information was entered, the users only used a PIN system, so even they maintained the appearance of anonymity, a neat psychological trick.
      Of course, on the backend, these details were weighted according to whether the person who contributed gave contact information, etcetera. Paige knew that as often as not, entirely anonymous tips were the ones that could make or break a case.
      It was open to human error and fraud, but so were non-computerized tips. John planned to implement a statistical analysis program on the back end to rate the effectiveness of each piece of information, and maintained that the gathered stats could eventually predict potential false tips.
      Paige wasn't clear on how that would work, but at this point John was a saint, and his words were gospel. She only hoped the chief would grasp the intrinsic value of the work they were doing.
He was due back Friday, Monday at the latest.
      She felt pretty good about things overall. She obtained the budget information for the year, and even with P.J's promotion and associated expenses from the start, and the Chang kids, Paige was well under budget for the year.
      At the same time, the ratio of solved to unsolved murders was creeping up ever so slowly, and she hoped it wasn't a fluke, but rather the beginning of an ongoing trend.
      What she and John were currently collaborating on was the piece de resistance: a dashboard display frontend for her and the chief. Actually, two of them. The IS portion, which she thought of as hers, got the most attention.
      At a glance, a single screen displayed all of the relevant details of her department: budget vs. projections, win-loss ratio, caseload, personnel. It allowed you to drill down indefinitely, or just get from it a general sense of how the department was doing. Brilliant, if she did say so herself.
      Paige was juggling numbers in an effort to see what sort of offer she could make in order to induce the twins to stay on the payroll when Lisa buzzed her from the next room.
"Paige, Mr. Rogers at the coroner's office would like a word with
you."

      God, she's hot, Paige thought. I wonder if she likes Maggie Gyllenhaal and James Spader? She dialed the extension of the coroner, the inaptly named Mr. Rogers.
"Dave, how's it going?"
      "Good, Paige. Well, not good, but weird. Which is good, to me. I think you might want to come down here to my office instead of reading the report."
"Gotcha," Paige said, and hung up.
      David Rogers was an anomaly, a coroner who wasn't creepy. He was somewhat effeminate and had bad breath, but more importantly, wasn't creepy.
      Most coroners, Paige had found, were definitely creepy. It came with the territory. You had to be a little off to even want to work with dead bodies, Paige reflected. That applied even to herself.
      But Dave didn't give off the air of a man who molested dead children or something, as most of them did. He was more like a doctor with a lousy track record, trying to figure out where he went wrong.
      If you had to have some guy cutting you naked carcass apart, you could do worse than to have Mr. Rogers at the helm. Even his name was reassuring.
She found him in his kitchenette, waiting for the microwave. "Want some soup?" he asked.
      Paige shook her head no, politely. He ate the most wretchedly unhealthy meals. She wondered where he got his recipes.
      Dave ignored her as he prepared what seemed to be a delicious gourmet meal, in his mind. "Don't mind me," he said "I'll just me a moment."
      He had an array of ingredients set before him on the counter, in what seemed to be a deliberate parody of a classy TV cooking show. But Dave took it all too seriously Paige could tell.
      From the microwave, he removed his bowl containing two packs of ramen noodles. To this, he added a handful of BBQ Fritos, two flavor packets (beef and shrimp, she noted - gross), a pile of crushed-up Cheetos, several spoons of heavily processed chili that actually came out of a bag, and an entire cup of nacho cheese.
      He stirred these together quickly and began to consume it with obvious delight.

      Paige couldn't imagine eating anything that was so salty and bad for you, much less wolfing it down like a starving person. She counted no less than five sources of MSG and sodium and shuttered.
"Dave," she had to ask, "Where did you learn to cook?" "What? Oh, this?" he indicated with his spoon. "In prison."
      Paige let the entire subject rest. There was a lot she didn't know about Dave, clearly.
      David ate with a dignified air, he just did it rapidly. Knowing a little about his background, now, that made a bit more sense.
      When he had finished, he washed his plastic bowl and disposable spoon, dried them and put them both away in a cabinet well-stocked with ramen and chips.
      "Never again," he muttered to himself, and Paige knew he was talking about jail. She deduced that his diet was a way of reminding himself daily of the horrors his time in the pen must have held for one so obviously intelligent and sensitive as he.
      "Detective Burner, I warn you in advance, things are about to get weird around here," Dave began. "It may be said that this wizard of Wall Street you dragged in here died of natural causes. It may also be argued that he was killed. The problem is, skilled though I am, I cannot be considered knowledgeable enough to make such a determination."
"Really?" Paige asked rhetorically.
      "There was no trauma, no trace of poisons, nothing to indicate foul play, in the traditional sense. However, the cause of death is one I've never encountered before. His liver seems to have been liquefied. Often," he said wryly, "that can lead to death."
"Liquefied?" Paige asked sharply.
      "Liquefied," Dave said, belaboring the point for Paige's benefit. "Turned to liquid. Made into mush. Reduced to its component elements. This liver has ceased to be."
      Paige realized Dave was performing Monty Python's dead parrot sketch, but she wasn't amused.
"And there's no medical precedent for this that you know of?" she
asked.
"Oh, sure there is. It's called Ebola. Only it's highly contagious, and
attacks multiple organs. Within a few days all of your insides melt. Nasty stuff."

"But this is Ebola, right?"
      "My dear, if it were, twenty-five percent of L.A. would be dead, myself included."
"So, what could it be?"
"That, Detective Burner, is the question that resides at the top of the
$25,000 pyramid. But wait, there's more." "More?"
      "Much more. I did some checking. We California coroners tend to gossip. Talk shop, call it what you will. We lead lonely, solitary lives. Only other coroners understand us. Consequently, we have a little network online where we have private group discussions. Guess, Paige, who just so happened to have died from the exact same malady?"
"I have no idea, Dave." Paige answered. "Guess!" Dave urged her.
"Um, Uma Thurman?" she said, not really trying. "Not even close, Paige. Charles Manson."
      Paige was more than a little startled by this news. Had he said almost anyone else, she would have been less surprised.
"Holy shit," Paige exclaimed, "What do you make of that?"
      "Well, me and my friend have been talking. I realized this is a bit esoteric. But the general consensus around here is that we're looking at biowarfare."
"What?"
      "A custom-tailored disease, Paige. Such things exist, of course. Or, can exist, rather. If they do, they're in secret government labs, or deep with the stores of private corporations, waiting to be unleashed upon us. So, accept my premise, if you will, and bear with me."
"Sure," Paige said.
      "So, we have two men dead from an undiscovered disease, which I believe was manmade. They are the only two men in history, to my knowledge, who have died in such a manner.
      So, given that, why would these two men be targeted for termination, given their disparate positions at the ends of the social spectrum?"
      "Um," Paige began, "I know some people want Manson dead, understandably, but I don't think they'd have the ability to engineer a custom virus. As far as the rich guy, I guess I can see that happening, at a

stretch. Still seems unlikely, though. But those super-rich get caught up in some wild stuff, at times, I heard."
"Indeed," Rogers said. "But you're missing the point, Paige." "How's that?"
"What would be the connection between the two?" "Yeah, that's a good point. I'm not sure, honestly."
      "Genetics, Paige. If we're looking at something engineered, and only two people died from it, they must share a common bond. In other words-"
      "In other words, Carl Cameron might be Charles Manson's father," Paige concluded.
"Exactly."

Chapter 32 - Soup's On
      Jean was cooking up a very special batch of virus. This was to be his final test case before unleashing the completed disease on the world.
Except it wasn't a disease. It was the cure.
      This iteration of Jean's righteous plague was going to cause quite a stir. It was short-lived, but highly communicable. And it targeted the fascist gene.
      He was so confident in his work that he produced two batches. The second was identical, except it had no pre-determined lifespan. This was the true Captain Trips, the world's savior.
      Having accomplished the heavy lifting, Jean set about planning the release of version two. He needed a site with sparse population, a probability of numerous psychopaths, and one that was relatively isolated, so it didn't spread out of control.
      While he pondered this, running various searches to find the perfect spot, he called Maxine.
"Hey!" she said.
"Hi, love. How's school?"
      "Good, good," she said, hand resting on her protruding stomach. "But I'm thinking of sitting out next semester."
      "Oh no!" he said. "That'll delay your graduation by four months, counting graduation ceremony. How come?"
"Oh, I dunno. Ennui, I guess. Don't worry, nothing I can't handle." "Are you sure? I could come visit you."
      "I'm fine, Jeaner. Really. But, I'd love to see you. It's just...I don't know. A bad time."
"I love you Maxine. You know that, right?" "I know, Jean. I love you, too. So much."
"If you change your mind, let me know, ok? I'll come running." "I will, boo."
      "Say, Maxine. Lots of people like different places. Is there any place you don't like?"
Maxine thought about this for a while.
      "Colorado ant never done shit for me," she said. "Buncha white folks, no offense, too damn cold and rich. Why?"
      "Ok, no reason. Just curious. I wouldn't want to take you on a honeymoon you'd hate."

"Oh, Jean. You're so damn sweet."
"I know. So are you. That's why we're perfect for each other." "We really are." She brightened.
"You know I think about you all the time, right?" "Do you? I love you. I do too."
"You think of yourself all the time?" she teased.
      "Heh. You, Maxine Jackson, occupy a disproportionate chunk of my frontal lobe. How's the coding?"
"Oh, good. I'm an iPhone dev, now. It looks lucrative." "Wow, that's a big step forward."
"Yeah! I couldn't have done it without you."
      "Stuff and nonsense. You had the framework. You just have to cut through the professor's convoluted explanations. Truth be told, most of them can't code their way out of a paper bag."
      "I'm starting to pick up on that. Those who can, code. Those who can't, teach others to code?"
Jean laughed.
      "Yeah, it's a shitty system. I've found most learning that occurs at college is self-directed. There are a lot of four point ohs out there that don't know anything."
"And a bunch of dropouts who are brilliant," Maxine added.
      "Look, I'm serious about seeing you, Maxxy. I can't believe we've waited this long."
"I know. But the next time we're together I want it to be forever." "It will be, angel. I love you so much."
"I love you, too. Gotta go, honey." "Ok, I guess, if you have to."
"I really do."
"Alright. I love you, Maxine." "I know, Jean, I love you, too." "Bye," Jean said.
"Bye," she replied. "I love you."
"Ok, talk to you later." "Ok. You hang up first." "No, you hang up first." "We'll hang up together."

"Ok, One..." "Two..." "Three."
"I love you," Maxine said.
"Aargh!" Jean said. "I love you, Maxine. Talk to you later." "Ok, bye."
Click.
They hung up together.
      Jean felt concern over Maxxy, and her reluctance to discuss her problem with him, but there was no point in pushing her for answers. She was nothing if not independent. What other woman would wait an entire year for him, if necessary?
      Instead of dwelling on something he couldn't change, he selected a small ski town, Deer Valley, Colorado, and made plans to visit there soon.
      It made sense in a lot of ways. The high-income bracket of the vacationers would guarantee a decent number of psychopaths, and the isolation of the area helped to insure a limited geographical impact.
      The fact that Maxine somehow didn't care for Colorado helped seal the deal. Because, come what may, Jean would never forget his adoration for her above anything else in life.
      He was packing a travel bag and feeling clever when his house phone rang.
"Hello?"
      "Hi. Dr. Jean Splicer? Detective Paige Burner. Do you have a few minutes?"
"Detective?" he asked.
      "Oh, right. Sorry, I neglected to mention I'm a cop. It kinda scares guys off."
"Do tell," he said.
"Anyway, I have a case I'd like to discuss with you, if you have the

time."


"Should I bring a lawyer?" Jean asked, in all seriousness.
"What? No, silly. I need your expertise. I have a hot case, and it's

outside of my field of discipline."
      "Well, I was about to drive down to USC for the week, but I can put that off for a day. But only because I find you intriguing."

      "That I am. But there may be an expert witness position in it for you if you play your cards right."
"I'd rather not, if it can be avoided. I sort of have my hands full." Jean looked down at the third vial of Captain Trips he was holding. "What's this about, exactly?" he asked.
      "Well, this is sort of off the books, which is why I'm contacting you privately. Biowarfare."
"What?" Jean yelped. He tried to keep the rising panic out of his
voice.
"Yeah, I know. It's crazy. By the way, your supply house friend gave
up your number, once I assured him he wasn't in any legal jeopardy and neither were you."
      "Hmmm. On one hand, I have nothing to hide. On the other hand, I should find another supplier on general principle."
      "Awwww. Then I'd never get to see you. It's not his fault, I leaned on him pretty heavily." Paige said.
"I'm sure you could subpoena me," Jean quipped. "Or handcuff you..."
"Yow. So where do you want to meet?"
      "There's a little restaurant in Pasadena, Pepper's. Is seven o'clock good for you?"
"Pepper's. Pasadena. Seven. Sure, I'll see you there."
      Jean hung up and realized he was sweating. He wasn't a suspect, or she wouldn't have handled it like that, he knew.
Still, it was far too fateful to be ignored. He decided to play it cool.
Perhaps he could extract useful information from her, instead.
      His hands were shaking. He had to remember that according to Ayahuasca, she wasn't the enemy. But it was endgame, and things were moving forward so quickly now, he'd have to be extra careful.
      Jean finished packing his bags, then made arrangements to take a week off of work to conduct research at USC on his own time. He'd found an undergrad willing to sign him in and out of the labs a few times during the week to provide himself a cover story.
      He also decided to leave for Colorado right after dinner with the petite, strawberry detective.

Chapter 33 - Dinner at Pepper's
      For the life of her, Paige couldn't decide what to wear. She wasn't sure whether to classify Jean as a potential suitor or an expert witness. Or a suspect.
It was a crazy notion, one that refused to leave her mind completely.
Currently, the entire field of gene manipulation was suspect.
      But the fact was she had no suspects. She reminded herself not to twist the facts to fit the available people involved in the case.
      Ultimately, she tried to select an outfit that worked under all possible circumstances. She chose a charcoal-gray skirted business ensemble with black trim. The skirt nearly reached her knees, which was actually a bit longer than she wanted to wear.
      Paige found herself spending more time on her make-up than she ordinarily would have. Still, she was ahead of schedule so she smoked a bowl of blendo, and then immediately regretted it. The food at Pepper's was excellent, and the portions generous. To go to dinner there with the munchies was a surefire plan for gluttony.
      She went over her notes for the case. Paige had a lot of questions, but she wanted to keep dinner casual. Pulling out notepads and index cards tended to make people more guarded, even when they had nothing to hide.
      Confident that she had a handle on things, she phoned ahead to the restaurant.
"Pepper's" a voice said. "Hi, Toni, it's Paige."
"Paige Burner! I haven't seen you in months. Are you coming in?" "I am, actually. I wanted to see if you could hold a booth for me in
the back."
"Oooh. Hot date?" Toni asked.
"A hot case. I mean, he's cute, but this is a working dinner." "I see. Well, maybe I'll take a crack at him," Toni said.
      Twenty-six year-old Toni Pepper was a notorious tease. She was the hostess at Pepper's, and had been since she was ten years old. The restaurant was owned by her father, Antoine Pepper, who was also a doctor.
      Paige suspected that Toni, who was just on the other side of voluptuous, was still a virgin. Or at least a technical virgin.
"How's your dad?" Paige asked.

      "Good." Toni said brightly. "He's been falling down a lot, but no major problems."
"Falling down? Why?"
"No idea. Doctors," Toni said. "Doctors," Paige said in agreement. "So, when are you coming?"
"I'm supposed to be there in...crap! I'm on my way." "Byee."
      She grabbed her clutch and started out the door. She caught herself running and stopped. She wasn't late, she was anxious to see Jean again.
      She was trying to be professional about this, and failing. There was just something about him that she really liked, however indefinable it may be.
      But her feelings seemed to be unrequited. It was the story of her life. Why did one person always have to care more than the other? And why was she always the one who cared more?
      There was never any way to avoid it. But love sometimes felt like a pitcher plant or a venus fly trap. You were drawn in, feeling safe and secure, and then through some reversal you were suddenly crushed and in pain.
      Love was the bait, and the outcome was always the same. At least in Paige's life so far, that was the case.
      Human nature being what it was, she remained hopeful. But each time, she became more wary and less trusting. She feared that she would one day be unable to love anymore. And what then? A life without love surely wasn't worth living.
      She pushed these thoughts away as she drove. She loved the wind in her hair, and the feeling of power and freedom driving gave her.
      Even then, she wondered what it would be like to be a passenger, driven by another. She wanted to be safe and secure. Loved forever. Was such a thing possible in this day and age?
It seemed the stuff of fairy tales.
      Paige felt her throat constricting and her eyes welling. Could love take away the pain in her heart, or was it the cause? She found herself pulling into the parking lot at Pepper's, with no real memory of driving there. I need a drink, she thought.
      There were no other Chargers present and she felt another pang of disappointment, Irrational, but she had hoped to see him in the parking lot

again.
There were a few motorcycles, and for a moment she wondered if he
possibly drove one. She had always felt any man she settled down with would ride, with her on the seat behind him.
      But they wouldn't settle down. She wanted her life to be a grand adventure, full of surprises and excitement. Paige Burner was dying to live.
      She chirped her alarm and turned to go inside, when head lights illuminated her silhouette in the darkening parking lot.
      Her heart skipped a beat, and she chided herself for being silly. But it was Jean, and he pulled into the spot next to hers, recreating their first meeting rather perfectly.
Great minds really do think alike.
      She stood silently and watched him emerge from his vehicle. Their eyes met and she watched his expression brighten at the sight of her, and she was sure she was doing the same.
      When he approached her, Paige fought an overwhelming urge to run into his arms.
      "I always thought the dashing knight would arrive on a white charger," she said, smiling.
      "Alas, m-lady, yon steed was all ye olde dealer had in stock on that fateful day."
Paige giggled at this, her worries forgotten.
      Jean extended his elbow to her as a matter of course, and they walked arm-in-arm to the door, which he held open for her.
      A black knight is better than none at all, she thought. Or gray, at the very least.
"Paige!" Toni greeted them.
"Hey, Toni!" Paige replied. "Good to see you."
"I know," Toni said. "It's been forever. Who's your friend?" Jean turned to look at Paige.
"Toni Pepper, meet Dr. Jean Splicer." "Oooh, a doctor," Toni said.
      "Mad doctor," Jean corrected. "Enchanted," he said as he kissed her hand. "Any friend of Paige..."
"Down boy," Paige said, adding to Toni's delight. Without another word, she led them to their booth. "Have a great time," she told them.

When she was far out of earshot Paige said, "Well, that was mean." "What?" Jean said. "Mean? How?"
      "You leading her on. Getting her hopes up. You have no intention of doing her. You're a tease."
      "I was being a gentleman. And it's not that I wouldn't, even though I prefer a size -" he conspicuously eyed Paige up and down, "-six. But since I've met Maxine, I've become a one-woman man for the first time ever."
"Is it hard?" Paige asked.
      "Not right now, it's not," he said. Then Paige caught on to what he was saying and blushed. He smiled in response.
      "Sorry. No, as long as Maxxy is alive, it's not difficult at all. I'm crazy about her. She changed everything for me. But if there was no Maxxy," he paused, "And no you, I'd give her a good time."
Now Paige was really blushing. Plus she felt warm all over.
      "I used to make a lot of women fairly happy. In the long run, they were unhappy because they couldn't have me exclusively. But I've changed. Now I understand I should make just one woman completely happy."
"How happy can she be with you here?" Paige asked.
      "That's a good question. I'm not sure. I mean, I'm here, and I'm happy. I just figured it was the same for her."
      "I don't think any woman can be completely happy away from the man she loves for so long."
"We talk every week..."
      "Every week? You, sir, are slipping. Women don't generally want to be given their space. They need to feel wanted and often. Maybe I'm projecting," Paige said.
"Perhaps. I fail to see how this relates to the human genome, though.
And what sort of name is Paige Burner? It sounds wonderfully contrived." "I know, sometimes I feel like a character in a paperback. Burner
comes from the german name Werner. I actually work with a Brad Pittman." "Heh. No writer would invent that name. I went to college with a
James Brown-"
"Nice," she said.
      "-But I think my favorite was guy in junior high named Dominic Sawyer."
Paige thought about this for a moment. "Dom Sawyer! Excellent."

She took a sip of water.
"I went to high school with a girl names Krewel Sumner," she said. "No way!"
      "Way. She was extremely popular when that song came out, believe me, Bananarama jokes aside. Thinking about it, she was pretty cruel."
"I bet. The prettier they are, the crueler they are, in my experience.
You must be a full-blown dominatrix," he said.
      "Flatterer. I'm not so bad. I just have high standards. And all I meet are cops and criminals. What about Maxine?"
"What do you mean?" "Pretty, cruel?"
      "Oh. Well, she's gorgeous. But so far, so good. She says I'm the man for her. I really hope that's the case."
"Why wouldn't it be?"
"I don't know. There are other factors in a relationship aside from

love."


"Like what?" Paige asked. "Money. Family. For example."
"I guess. I always thought love conquers all."
"I'm afraid that remains to be seen. In a perfect world, perhaps."

Their eyes met, and Jean held her gaze for a moment. "But," Jean said, "the universe marches steadily on toward perfection. So there's hope."
"Perfection is in the eye of the beholder," Paige said. "It is in my case," Jean said.
"Oh stop." She paused. "Tell me about your work," she continued. "I'd rather hear about yours."
"You first."
      "Well, the human genome is quite possibly the most complex thing in the universe. Second, I would say, only to the universe itself," Jean said.
      Your genes contain so much information that we're still not sure how deep that particular rabbit hole goes. But it's more complex than space, less well understood than the oceans."
Have you ever heard of a theory called the holographic universe?" "No," Paige said, "I can't say that I have."
      "Well, each part of a hologram contains all the information needed to recreate the entire hologram. Each part contains the sum."
"I don't understand," Paige said.

      "Well, the theory is that not only do you contain enough information to recreate yourself, but possibly enough to recreate the universe."
      "That sort of sounds like the idea that the entire universe is contained in someone's fingernail or something. Like something a stoner or bad writer would come up with."
      "The idea had a basis in reality. There is also the concept of genetic or racial memory. DNA might possibly pass information forward from one generation to the next."
"How?"
"We're not sure how, really. You understand DNA, right?" "Vaguely."
      "Well, we don't know what all it contains, some of the information is encoded."
"Like, encrypted?"
      "Yes, similarly. It's a matter of detecting the patterns and cracking the code. Instinct is a good example of genetic memory."
"Instinct I understand, sort of."
"Well, consider this. Smell me," Jean said. "What?"
"Just smell my underarms." "Ummmm..."
"Come on. I don't bite."
"That's too bad," Paige teased as she leaned forward and did as he

asked.


"Not bad," she said.
"I don't wear deodorant or anything," Jean said, "but the fact that I

don't smell bad to you-"
"You smell good," Paige interrupted.
"-means you and I have complimentary immune systems." "Wow. Really? You can get all that from smells?"
      "It's just one of nature's little tricks. But it's all genetics," Jean explained.
"And you know how to manipulate genes and DNA?" Paige asked. "I mainly do theoretical work. I was never very skilled as a lab
tech," Jean lied.
      "I must confess I Googled you. Very impressive. University of Alabama? Seems like an unlikely school for this sort of thing."

      "Not really. It's not something they're known for, but a little bit of this research goes on at every school. We were just lucky enough to hit on a novel approach at he right time, and so we're considered first."
      But honestly, I can think of three teams at other schools that were working along the same lines. What can I say? Our software worked before theirs did."
      He paused. "You know, I think I could help you more if you told me about your case. Otherwise, I'll just ramble on all night."
"Oh, I was enjoying listening to you talk."
      A waiter brought their appetizers, and took their entr�e orders. Jean took the opportunity to not speak, instead sampling the fried crab claws he ordered.
      Subtle, Paige thought, and picked up the conversation on her own, changing the tone entirely.
"What do you know about biowarfare?" "Oh, jeez," Jean said. "Are you recruiting?" "Wait, what?"
"Shop. Agency. Feds. CIA, et al."
"Oh. No. I'm just like I said, a homicide detective. Not a fed." "It's just that I've turned them down before. It gets tiresome." "Why not?" Paige asked.
"Why not what?"
"Why not work for them?" "Are you kidding?"
      "Yeah, well. Ok, I know. It's like...Barney Fife gets a cat down from a tree, but shoots a guy by accident at the same time. That's the CIA."
"By accident?" Jean said.
      "Please humor my analogy a bit further. Someone has to work there on the inside to make the good stuff happen. That's your cat."
      Jean raised his eyebrow. "Analogy accepted," he said with a twinkle. "But still, that's a dangerous profession. I don't know the numbers, but this field has had a spate of curious deaths around the globe."
      "That's what makes this so interesting. What if someone engineered a virus for a specific person?"
      "Preposterous," Jean said. "I mean, it can be done. But it could cost millions to develop something that specific."
"And? What's your point?"

      "Just that, if you want to kill one person, there are cheaper and less troublesome ways to do it."
"What if you want to kill a whole bunch of people?" "Now, why would anyone want to do that?" "Rhetorical question." Paige said.
      "Right. Well, the problem with a mass virus such as you suggest is that it would require a limiter. Something that would confine itself to a certain substrata of individuals. Otherwise, it would kill indiscriminately."
"Race?"
      "Certainly, race, gender, body type. Anything like that can be targeted pretty easily."
"Could it act fast?"
      "Depending on what existing viruses you base your design on, absolutely. Forty-eight hours. Maybe as little as twenty-four."
Paige pondered this for a moment.
      "So we're fucked then," she said, knocking back her beer. "Even if I'm wrong now, it is inevitable."
"Everything's eventual," Jean said.
"Hey." Paige said. "No fair mining King for pithy phrases." "Guilty," Jean said. "But in a bigger sense, that concept isn't as
dismal as it sounds. In infinite space and time, everything that can happen, will happen. And that includes perfection. It's sort of the universe's closing act. Unfortunately," he added, taking a swig of Coke, "the encore is total destruction."
"Perfection of a different sort," Paige said. "Exactly."
"How wonderfully depressing."
      As if the antidote to their morose musings, Toni Pepper bounced back into view.
"Is everything ok, Paige?" she asked.
      Before she could answer, Toni snapped her fingers at a waitress and lifted Paige's empty bottle of Shiner Bock. The waitress put her head down and scurried off to fetch one.
      "I only stock that beer because you requested it before, Paige. Drink up. Of course, now that people have learned about it, it doesn't stay in the cooler for long. There's a standing rule that we keep a fresh sixer on hand for you."

"I had no idea, Toni. I'm touched, thank you."
      Toni said, "You should be," and smiled, walking away before Paige caught the double entendre.
"Wow," she said, "she's stepped up her game." "What do you mean?"
"She used to just flirt with men." "Maybe that was a hint to me."
"I don't think you need any such reminders. Do you?" Paige asked. "No," he said. "At this point, I need reminders not to."
"While I respect your position, I do ask that you rethink it."
      "I'm afraid it's a no-go. Please direct all inquiries to Ms. Maxine Jackson, University of Alabama."
"Oh, pooh," Paige said. "Maybe I will!" They both smiled at this.
      "So what specifics do you have that lead you to fear an imminent bio attack?"
      "I had a case in which a guy died of unknown causes. But my sources indicate Charles Manson died of the exact same thing. Reliable sources."
Jean felt icy inside. But he made sure nothing showed on his face. "If it's unknown causes, how do you know it's the same thing?" "Well, the same symptoms, cause of death. 'unknown causes',
'natural	causes'	in	the	press.	That	was	to	avoid	a	panic.	Or rumormongering."
      "I'd like to know more. I'd really like a sample. But it's all pretty inconclusive, so far." Jean pushed his plate away. "Man, I am stuffed. You weren't kidding, the food is great here."
      "Glad you enjoyed it. If I have anything solid come up, can I call on you again?"
"Of course, anytime...If you let me pay the bill," Jean said. "I can't, she said. "Expense account."
"I'd love to stay but I have lab time scheduled at USC. Work stuff." "Oh, okay. Well, thanks again. I really enjoyed dinner."
      "Me too, Paige. I'll be back at work in a week, and you can give me a call anytime, ok?"
"I'd like that, Mr. Splicer. Thanks."
"This ought to cover the tip," Jean said, laying down a crisp fifty.

Paige shot him a bemused smile, and he was gone.
      She couldn't help but watch him go. So noble and charming. When he got to the freeway, Paige noticed he went south, when USC was to the north.
She could think of a hundred reasons for that, so she put it out of her
mind.

Chapter 34 - Cold Virus
      Jean's hands were shaking as he pulled onto Interstate 15. He never needed to get high so bad in his entire life. He reached under his seat and pulled out his stash box.
      He selected a bomber joint of Northern Lights, and dumped two Valium tens into his palm, swallowing them without water.
      As soon as he did it he considered what he was doing. He was never going to make it to Colorado on Valium. So, on top of those he ate an Adipex, the most heavily-regulated pharmaceutical speed there was, short of medical grade methamphetamine.
      Finally, he lit the joint and let the wind speak to him. He could see himself driving, somehow. Disassociation was a phenomenon he'd read about, but had never experienced. It didn't seem possible, but there it was.
      He watched himself smoke and drive, captivated by every nuance of his actions. He flicked ashes out the window. He scratched his chin. Each mundane move he made was fascinating to watch.He only hoped his tattered psyche would hold together long enough to allow him to complete his life's work.
      Yet, he knew it would. It was all pre-destined, written in black and white since the dawn of existence. He gave no thought beyond the culmination of his mission. He had no firm belief that he would survive. Such was martyrdom. To cling to his own petty mortality would be a rejection of the divine.
      Jean was the Japanese kamikaze pilot. He was the plane itself, and the ocean. He felt the serenity of the pilot dying in service to the creator. He felt the consuming flames engulf him. He looked down, this time with his own eyes, and realized he was in the burning tip of the roach that hung from his lips.
"Woah," he said
      He remained in his own skull for the rest of the trip, driving straight through to Deer Valley, Colorado. The first time the Charger's gas gauge showed a quarter tank, Jean got the strangest sensation. He got the strong impression that he no longer needed fuel. God, he felt, would get him where he needed to go.
      But as he passed an isolated gas station, "The last gas for 100 miles," the sign declared, he felt foolish and turned around.

      God helps those who help themselves, he reminded himself. Providence and science were not mutually exclusive, but two halves of the same whole. There's your unified field theory, he mused. Good luck getting it published.
      Several hundred miles after he began to veer north, the snows came. Jean kicked himself for lack of foresight on his part. There was little he could do but reduce his speed and plunge on ahead.
      Eventually, the roads were too steep and treacherous for even Jean's unshakable faith. He found a tire dealer, who sold and installed a set of snow chains.
      While he waited, he went to a sporting goods store and bought an anorak, thermal coveralls, battery powered socks, and snow boots. His hands hesitated over a set of snow shoes that looked suspiciously like badminton rackets, and then he grabbed them as well.
Nothing was going to stop him from completing his mission.
      For all of these items he paid cash, likewise for his gas. He did worry a bit when the salesperson at he tire store asked for his name, make and license plate number.
      Then he realized the smug clerk, so warm and dry, would never check, and so Jean gave him entirely false information on all counts.
      Around one a.m. he couldn't drive any further. The drifts were piling up, occasionally as high as the hood. The best laid plans of mice and men, he thought. At the same time realizing it hadn't been his best laid plan to begin with.
      He parked on the shoulder, or what he hoped was the shoulder. It was more or less impossible to tell, at that point.
      He remained hopeful that the road would be cleared in the morning, and so he plugged the nine-volt batteries into his socks and downed his cold water.
      Another factor, aside from the fact that the Adipex was wearing off, was that he didn't want to be remembered as the guy who walked in during a blizzard in the middle of the night.
Astute lodge clerks tend to notice things like that.
      He slept off and on. And, oh did the great winds howl. And talk. But he set his alarm for six hours of sleep, no more. He would walk toward the rising sun at golden dawn.

      His dreams that night were extremely vivid, and he got the impression that sleep, not orgasm, was the little death. Where you cannot account for your time spent.
      He had visions of another reality, a hellish one that was like the worst of Las Vegas all the time. Jean came to see that although theologically, he could dismiss the concept of hell and devil, the reality was, there was a hell.
      Multiverse theory tells us that each decision we make creates another reality, the option not taken. Hell was the one reality in which everyone was at their worst.
      Hell was not for the dead. Unless the dead were sent to a place called Earth. Hell was a spiritual condition.
      Thus heaven and hell coexisted around the globe, around the clock. People in hell rubbed off a little bit on the people who weren't, and, not in hell, they shone a little light into the lives of those who were.
      Or such were Jean's thoughts as he mixed a cold cup of extra strong coffee on the morning of his fateful second test.
      He carried with him a bottle of water, beef jerky, and a vial of Captain Trips, version two point oh six.
      The oh six came from a few modifications he made to his design before he did the splicing. He was still toying with the lifespan of the virus, and equally ran the risk of it being too short-lived.
      So the snowstorm was definitely a godsend. With a large group of them essentially trapped by the weather, he could study the effects from long distance without fear of releasing his plague too soon to the world at large.
      On the other hand, nature proved daily that if something survives, it deserves to survive.
      Either way, Jean thought he had hoped to give the world another chance to listen, but he knew it would be a fruitless effort. People didn't want to be saved.
      He set out on foot, snowshoes and all, shortly after the morning light began to peek out from behind the trees. Jean trudged six miles on a winding road that seemed to only go uphill.
      He drank all of his water. And then ate the beef jerky, leaving him parched.

      By the time he made it to the front door at the lodge, he was fairly well exhausted, and so he had a seat in the lobby.
The next thing he knew, someone was shaking his shoulder, saying,

"Sir?"


He snapped awake in an instant.
"Sorry, my car got stuck way down the road. Are there any

vacancies?"
      "No, and there isn't any vagrancy either. You can stay in the lobby for a while longer, but I'm afraid the facilities are for guests only."
      "Sure. Of course. Thanks, I appreciate it." Jean replied. When the clerk was safely out of sight, Jean made his way to the men's room, where he cracked the seal of the second vial.
      Sometimes he wondered why the book of Revelation spoke of seven seals, or vials. He was no longer sure which. It didn't matter. He was pure action. His thoughts, he felt, were perfectly programmed to provide a predetermined outcome. Yet, he couldn't see what the outcome would be.
      All he could do was do. He spattered the solution containing the virus around in a few places, careful not to leave anything glaringly obvious. Satisfied, he resealed the vial, stuck it in his pocket, and walked out of the bathroom, a modern day Typhoid Mary.
Reflexively, Jean washed his hands before he left the men's room.
      The virus spread through the lobby along with Jean. By the time he reached the door the damage was done. Effectively, the population of a small town had been exposed.
      He didn't encounter the desk clerk again, thankfully. Jean was on such a manic high following this second release, he trudged his way back to his car in half the time it took him to reach the lodge.
      He felt for the first time that he might be going insane. Not because of his course of actions, but because all the walking through the snow called to mind Jack Nicholson in 'The Shining'.
      He slept again. This time, there were no dreams that he could remember. A snowplow woke him. Like clockwork, he was back on the road.
      Jean pulled over at a rest stop and walked about a quarter mile into the woods. He uncapped the vial and flung it into the undergrowth. The cold may preserve the virus until the spring thaw, but that was the chance he had to take.

      It was designed to survive a scant twelve hours once unleashed, but he had no real assurance that would be the case. So he employed every caution he could.
      Jean had brought latex gloves, and used them at deserted gas pumps, never risking contact with another person. He ate from vending machines at empty rest areas.
      Not long after he entered Nevada, Jean sneezed. He immediately began to panic. The virus was programmed to survive twelve hours on its own. Its life expectancy once it infected someone was twenty-four hours, the same as the host.
      He felt flush and his head was swimmy. He was infected, he was sure of it. And now he was contagious. For all he knew, he was dying as well.
      He stuck it out and made it home, collapsing on the couch in a cold sweat. After nearly ten ours of sleep, and one brief bathroom visit, Jean woke up feeling okay. He wasn't sure if he was contagious or not, so he resolved to stay in his apartment for another twenty-four hours.
      He turned on CNN. Nothing. A scan of the online news sites revealed nothing of interest, either. It was a decidedly odd turn of events. People should definitely be dead by now, he thought.
      He rechecked all of his field notes. Could he have a made a mistake? The fact that he got sick seemed to indicate the serum wasn't inert.
Several hours later, he found the story, a local one. "Five dead in suspected food poisoning case."
      According to the article, guests and staff alike became ill yesterday morning from unknown causes. Most recovered in a day, but five people died.
They suspected bad eggs.
      So it was either a cover-up, or the medical examiner was clueless. He expected that a follow-up article would be run later, if any more was learned about the cause of death.
Jean was just glad the article wasn't syndicated.
      As tests go, it was a rousing success. He could find nothing to indicate the virus had infected anyone outside of the lodge. Most interesting to Jean was the fact that there were two sets of family members that died together.


cases.

Confirmed, he thought. Psychopathy is inherited, at least in some

The last vial of Captain Trips had no shelf life. Instead, it would

keep on killing until the fascist gene was effectively eradicated. Or so he hoped.

Chapter 35 - Eastward
      Paige thought of Jean often after their meeting. Thoughts of him inevitably led to thoughts of a Maxine Jackson. She began to wonder if Maxxy was a real person at all, or just a device to keep people at bay.
Well, she thought, he did say I should direct all inquiries to her.
      Maxine's number was unlisted, but that only meant Paige had to dig a little deeper, using a pay site set up for that purpose. She couldn't believe people still thought their phone records were private.
      There it was, Maxine O. Jackson, Tuscaloosa, Alabama. The same town as Jean's alma mater, so it had to be her.
She hesitated only momentarily, then dialed her digits. "Hello," a sleepy sounding voice said.
"Maxine Jackson?" "Yeah, this is Maxine."
      "Hi, my name is Patricia Davenport. I'm a reporter with L.A. Weekly. I was wondering if you would mind talking to us a bit about Jean Simons."
Maxxy woke up a bit at this.
"Oh, okay. What do you want to know?"
      "Just background info really. We're doing a series of profiles on hot up-and-coming scientists."
      "Heh," Maxxy said. "Doing your part to promote science to the masses, right!"
      "Exactly. Eighty percent fluff, a few pictures and if I'm lucky, a sentence or three of substance. I understand you went to school together?"
      "That's right. Jeaner really helped me to come into my own as a programmer. He really is brilliant. But you know that, right?"
Paige sighed, her defenses down.
"I'm afraid I do. He's funny and charming as well." "Oh, did he hit on you?"
      "No, nothing like that. In fact, I asked him out, and he turned me down cold."
"Wow!" Maxine said.
      "It's true. It's how I learned your name. He said any women interested in him would have to go through you. Which is enough to scare most women off, I guess."
"But not you, right?"

      "Well..."Paige started. "I was just wondering how you were able to make such a long-distance relationship work."
"I miss him like crazy, of course. But I have my hands full here,

too."


Maxine rubbed her now ripe, round stomach.
"To tell you the truth," Maxine continued, "I'd always assumed he'd

sleep with whoever while we were apart. A lab assistant, escorts. As long as it wasn't serious, I didn't have a problem with that. I guess it's a cultural thing. It was a given in the circles I used to run in."
"I see," Paige said.
      "Erm, don't interpret that as 'get it' or anything. Can you not print that?" she asked.
"Oh, of course. Not a problem."
"Thank you," Maxine said, in all sincerity.
      "Well, you'll be pleased to know he's doing nothing of the sort. He had no problem resisting my ample charms. And I'm considered somewhat irresistible. Of course, I hear you're pretty formidable yourself."
"I really don't feel it, lately." "Aw. What's wrong, Maxine?"
      "I'm just sort of...bloated lately." She paused. "I'm eight months pregnant, and Jean doesn't know it," she blurted out. "And if you print that or tell him, I will shoot you, rest assured."
There was an awkward pause.
"I'm sorry, Maxine. I had no idea. I didn't' mean to pry."
      "It's ok, it's your job. I needed to tell someone, I guess. I need a friend."
"I'll be your friend." "You're sweet."
      "Thank you. I must say, you're every bit as special as Jean said you were. Definitely a keeper. You should tell him. He'll make everything all right."
"I might," she said.
"Well, whatever you do, don't worry. That's bad for the baby." "I'll try not to," Maxxy said.
      "One more thing. Can you leave me with a funny story to cheer us both up?"

      "Heh, sure. Jean recently asked me about places I didn't like. To make sure he didn't take me there on our honeymoon."
"That's sweet. And what did you say?" "Colorado," Maxine said.
      "Heh, good one. Well, I guess that wraps this up. Thanks so much, Maxxy. Keep my number and call me if you ever need to talk, ok?"
"I will. Sorry, what was your name again?" "Paige."
"Ok, thanks, Paige. I do hope to talk to you again." "No problem. Take care, ok?"
"You too."
      Paige hung up the phone feeling bittersweet and melancholy emotions. On one hand, the door was perhaps open a tiny crack for a night of passion with Jean, but on the other hand, she couldn't do that to Maxine.
      And neither could Jean, she suspected, even with new facts in evidence. She wished someone loved her like that.
      She was reaching for her old standbys, her tray and the remote control, when Bryce Skyped her.
"Paige! Weird shit in Deer Valley." "What's up, bro diddley?"
      "Just got back from snow boarding. Mad powder. The snow was nice, too."
      He cackled at this. Paige knew he was kidding, as he had been rehabbed for years.
"Anyway, people died while we were there. We all got sick as fuck.
They said it was bad eggs. But we didn't eat no eggs." "People died, you say?"
"Yeah, five or six of them. Something weird happened, fa' sho'." "And where is Deer Valley? Utah?"
"Colorado."
"OMFG!" Paige fairly well yelled. "What?" Bryce asked, genuinely perplexed.
"Probably nothing, I hope. Bryce, I need a big favor." She went to her laptop and began Googling.
"Name it."
"I need you to go back to Deer Valley." "What? That's three hours away. It's snowing."

"Hold on," Paige said.
      She went to her vanity and removed her blouse and bra. On the mirror in red lipstick, a particular color she thought of as monkey mouth, as it reminded her of the sexual displays of female baboons at the zoo, she wrote, "Please?"
And then she used her phone to send Bryce his first topless photo of
her.
When she came back, Bryce said, "I was going to do it anyway,
Paige. But damn!"
"Do it, and I'll send you another southern exposure." "Word?"
"Word. I really need action on this. I'm building a case." "What?" This time Bryce yelled.
She knew she had really stepped in it. "Look, Bryce. I'm a cop."
"Goodbye," he said. But he didn't disconnect.
"A homicide detective. Relax," Paige tried to explain. "You've been lying to me?" he asked, truly hurt.
      "Just a little. I know how you feel about LEOs since your arrest. I'm sorry. It didn't seem important then."
"I dunno, Paige. I mean, nice tits and all, but chinga la ley."
      "I'm a fucking murder investigator, Bryce. I don't arrest people for drugs or hacking. I send killers to prison."
Bryce considered what she was saying.
"I get it. Ok. But, please, don't lie to me again?" "I won't. I'm sorry, Bryce. Are we cool?" "We're cool," he said.
      "Then get moving. I'm sending a picture. Talk to the staff and see if they recognize this guy or anyone unusual that day."
She hit send, and Bryce received Jean's photo from Time magazine. His phone buzzed in his hand.
"Got it," he said.
"Ok, holla when you know something, I'll be indisposed until

them."


"Where ya goin?" "Alabama," Paige said. She dialed P.J.

      "Peej! It's Paige. No time to explain. I won't be in tomorrow, or probably the next day. I'm working a big case, emergency. Take care of things for me. Ok?"
"Uh, ok, Paige."
"Thanks, bye."
      She hung up and dialed the airport as she was walking out the door. In retrospect, she probably should have brought a change of clothes, a hairbrush.
      The airport was an exercise in frustration. It was nearly an hour before she could even get to a ticket counter. And then the fun began. Some of the airlines seemed insulted by the fact that someone wanted to fly directly to Alabama.
      "We can fly you to Dallas or Atlanta, and you'll meet your connecting flight there."
"How long?"
"It's approximately a ten hour trip, all told." "I'll keep looking, thanks."
      She finally found an indy airline that served the aerospace industry, with a direct flight to Birmingham that morning, in less than half that time."
      Her nerves were frazzled. She wanted coffee, even though it would only make her more anxious. She wanted a screwdriver, even though it was a bad idea.
Most of all, she wanted to smoke.
      Paige decided the thing to so under the circumstances was all three. She made the long walk back to her car and ran the air conditioner as she rolled a joint out of roaches from the ashtray.
      When she'd finished smoking, she felt worlds better. She got a Starbucks, and before she had finished it, she found a bartender that was willing to bend to rules and started serving her drinks before his ten o'clock opening time.
      By the time her flight had been readied for boarding, she was on her third screwdriver. Thankfully, the flight wasn't crowded, and she managed two hours of rest or so before Bryce sent her a message on her laptop.
      "Confirmed," the message read. "The day clerk thinks he was here that day, sleeping in the lobby. What now?"
"Go home. Pray." "?"

      She was feeling extremely grateful to Bryce, and more than a little frisky, so she brought her camera to the bathroom.
      When she emerged, she transferred the photo to her computer and sent it to Bryce.
"!"
      Less than an hour from the airport, Paige rented a car online. She decided against her traditional Charger, and instead opted for a Magnum for a change. Chargers seemed to be everywhere, anymore.
Then she dialed Maxine. "Hello?"
"Maxxy? Hi, it's Paige again. From the newspaper." "From the magazine?"
      "Right. Anyway, they sent me to Alabama. I was wondering if you would be free later?"
"Yeah, sure. Sounds like fun. I could buy you dinner."
      "Honestly, I don't like to go out much, big like this. You should come here."
Maxine gave her the address.
"Ok, thanks. I should be there in two hours or so." "Cool. See you then."
      Paige wondered how she would tell her that she thought her boyfriend was a mass murderer.

Chapter 36 - The Reporter
      Jean desperately needed the extra day off from work, contagious or not. His exposure to the virus left him drained and dehydrated. But what's more, he felt different in some way he couldn't define. He no longer felt any sense of urgency about releasing the third and final iteration of Captain Trips. Jean attributed this to the fact that it had been tested and proven effective.
The truth was more complicated than that.
      When he returned to work he continued to monitor the Colorado story but no further mention was made. The perfect crime, he thought.
      Although he somehow felt different about it, Jean knew the time for the final release was approaching. So he set about finding the right time and place.
      The place was a no-brainer. L.A.'s population exceeded that of some states. LAX was the business and leisure hub of the entire West Coast. Within six hours of release, the virus will have spread to Japan, New York, Canada, Mexico and beyond.
      He turned his attention to the calendar and was surprised to learn he had no idea what the date was. It was Friday, the sixth.
      Next Friday was the thirteenth. The way Jean saw it, that day would actually be a lucky one for most of the world. Others, of course, wouldn't fare quite so well.
      Having made the hard decisions, he felt a deep calm within, relief. It was finally coming to an end. He tried to imagine what life would be like that following Monday, and found he could not.
      One concern he had was that he knew, intellectually, that there was an evolutionary/biological need for psychopathy. They got things done. Often for the wrong reasons, perhaps, but psychopaths made the trains run on time.
      But on a gut level, he knew they were a plague on mankind, a pox on humanity. Those trains were sometimes bound for concentration camps, wars, prisons.
      Nevertheless, he had to wonder how humanity would adapt. It was an academic exercise. Adaptation was the reason homo sapiens resided at the top of the food chain.
      Near the top, he corrected himself. There was a school of thought in some  biology  circles  that  put  forth  the  notion  that  once  you  used

psychedelics, you were evolved.
      Homo futurus, some called it. The next stage of humanity's development. He wondered where psychopaths resided in this schema.
      Were they also more than human? Jean didn't think so, but it was an emotional argument. Jean still believed humanity was defined by empathy and a capacity for caring.
      Others, more pessimistic than Jean, felt humanity was defined by their capacity for inhumane behavior. Animals rarely engaged in mass murder and torture, for example.
      He felt calm and reflective, the heavy lifting out of the way, but he also felt somewhat empty and purposeless. Where could go from here?
      As foolish as the notion was, part of Jean still felt that he should get credit for what was about to happen. Luckily, another, bigger part of him knew such hubris amounted to suicide.
      There would be no letters to the editor this time around. The world had been given a chance to reform and rejected it. Having solved one of the world's major problems, Jean decided that he might as well eliminate cancer next. Or maybe just extend the human lifespan. Perhaps he could actually claim credit if he achieved one of those things.
      And he had no doubt he could achieve these things if allowed to work unimpeded. He had to be extra careful, now. Getting caught now could mean the entire project would be a failure. Not to mention a possible death sentence.
      Jean was about to check the message board on Erowid, where he'd posted his new pipe design, when his cell phone rang.
"Maxxy!" he said, with genuine joy in his voice.
      "Jean, Jean the dancin' machine," she said. A private joke, as he was an absolute terrible dancer.
"How are you, lost angel? You're calling a little earlier than normal.
I'm afraid I'm still at work."
"Oh. Ya' workin'?" she asked.
      "Not at all. I haven't hit a lick all day. And it's too late to start now," he said with a grin in his voice. "What's up?"
"Oh, nothing really. I did talk to your girlfriend earlier today..." "What?"
      "Some little reporter chick. She sounds cute. I think she wants you to beat it up for her."

"Reporter?"
"Yeah. LA Weekly? US Magazine? Something like that." "What did she want?"
      "Just color for her story, I guess. Asked me about going to school with you. But I think she was feeling me out about you, at the same time. It seems you made quite an impression on her."
"Really? I wish I knew who you were talking about, then." "Paige something?"
"Oh, her. Yeah, she's cool, I guess." "Is she hot?"
"Uh..."
"I'll take that as a yes."
      Inwardly, Jean's mind was reeling. Paige was a reporter? She never indicated that to him. Was it a ruse? Was she really interested in him, or were there ulterior motives? He immediately began to get paranoid, but he didn't want to alarm Maxine.
"Maxxy. You know I'm not interested in anyone else but you."
"Oh, I know...she said the same thing, actually. Very sweet. But I think that your playing hard to get made her want you more. I just want to know what she looks like Jeaner, not your innermost thoughts."
"Well, she's about your height, and build, maybe a little less muscular. She doesn't have your thighs."
"Go on..."
"Um, red-headed. Smart." "Pretty?"
"Sure." "Fuckable?" "What?"
"You heard me."
"Yes. Definitely."
      "Ho-ho," she said. "Now you're getting real. Do you think she's freaky?"
"What do you mean?"
"You know. Kinky. Bi, maybe, whips and chains." "Hmmm. Probably."
"Would you leave me for her?" "What? No way, Maxxy. I love you!"

      "I love you, Jeaner. I know you love me too. I still have to ask. I've been fine apart from you for so many months, but now I'm suddenly feeling...vulnerable. And alone."
She choked back a sob.
      "Maxine, please don't cry. Come see me. Come live with me. I make more than enough for both of us. You don't have to be alone, ever."
      "You're sweet. I'm sorry, Jean. I'm fine. I'm probably about to start my period," she joked.
"I could come see you," he said. "Yum," she said. "I'd like that." "Say the word, and I'm on my way."
"Ok, I will. Let me meet this girlfriend of yours. She seems nice.
Maybe she'll cheer me up."
"Only if you stop calling her my girlfriend."
      "Girlfriend,	girlfriend,	Jeaner	has	a	girlfriend,"	she	chanted, laughing.
"Stop!" he said jokingly, and they both laughed.
      When the laughter had subsided, Jean said, "I love you, Maxxy. I'll talk to you soon, ok?"
"Ok, Jeaner. I love you, too. Thanks for cheering me up." "Bye..."
"Byeee," she said.
Jean hung up the phone, sweating.
      He fairly well ran to his laptop. Was she a cop or was she a reporter? And there it was in black and white: Paige Burner, Head of Investigative Services, Homicide Division, L.A. County. Why would she say she was a reporter unless she suspected him? He mentally kicked
himself for being so careless. He was practically sleeping with the enemy.
      Had she always known? When he bought the thermocycler, was she tailing him? His paranoia was quickly spiraling out of control.
      Jean took a deep breath. He was tempted to call Maxxy back and tell her not to say anything.
      Instead, he decided to wait until he heard from her again. She didn't know anything incriminating, and there was no point in telling her anything at this point.
      Besides, Maxxy was very cop savvy. Jean was confident that she'd let him know if Paige asked any suspicious questions.

But perfect paranoia was perfect security.
      Jean called D-Gen and took off the next week of work. If they were coming for him, he wasn't going to make it easy for them.
      He strongly considered driving to the nearest mall and dropping the last vial. Then no matter what came down, his job was complete. But for whatever reason, he was sticking to his schedule. The thirteenth was just too perfect for a momentous event such as this was going to be.
      He grabbed an armful of clothing and stuffed it into a suitcase. The vial of Captain Trip went into his pocket. The gun case and suitcase he placed in his car. He sat behind the wheel, and then thought about it a bit.
      Jean went back inside and wiped out his hard drives. The thermocycler and all printouts went into the trunk. Finally, he cleared the apartment of drugs and related paraphernalia.
      It was silly, but if something happened, he didn't want to make it easy for them to build a case against him. He then set out for East L.A. It seemed the least likely place for anyone to look for him.
On the drive there, he swung by Pookie's. "Jean! Sup?"
"What up, Uncle Pook?"
"Nuttin' but the rent. What ya' need?"
      "It's not a need, as such. But I appear to have gotten myself into a situation. So I wanted to give you this."
He extended a single silver key on a ring to Pookie. "What's dis?"
      "It's a key to a safe deposit box at the Chase Bank on North Wilshire. Inside, if something happens to me, you'll find one hundred and twenty-two thousand dollars and some change."
"Dag. What kind of shit you in?"
      "Possible a legal matter. You'll hear from Maxine if it goes down. And it may not. But if it does, I won't be needing the money. Take it, and use it to take care of her."
"Why give it to me? Give her the key."
He tried to hand it back to Jean, who refused it.
"Nah," jean said. "She'd just waste it on a lawyer and bail money.
She'll use it differently if she thinks it's yours."
"That's a lot on money, cat. I've smoked fools over much less."

      "I know. But if I get popped, it won't do me any good. At least this way, Maxxy's taken care of."
"Damn. Why won't it do you any good?" "Because I'm guilty as fuck," he said with a grin.
      "Aight. I got you. If something happens to you. If not, drop by once the heat is off."
"Cool. You're a lifesaver, Pookie."
"Hmm. I ain't never been called that before." "I guess there's a first time for everything." "Word. Be cool, Mean Jean."
"I'll try," Jean said "Peace."
"Peace."
      As he drove off toward deepest L.A. Jean wondered what was going on with Maxxy and the murder investigator.

Chapter 37 - Tenderness
      Paige arrived in town and picked up her rental, then dialed Maxine for her address. It was nearly an hour before she reached her apartment.
When she got there, Maxine greeted her at the door with huge hug. "Paige!"
"Maxine!"
      Maxxy pulled her so close and held her so tightly, Paige's back cracked. It felt really nice. Neither woman had had human contact in quite some time.
Maxine took a step back and looked Paige up and down.
"Wow," she said, "He really didn't do you justice at all, Paige.
You're gorgeous."
      Paige blushed. Maxine was perfectly shaped and yet also fully pregnant, her protruding belly and swollen breasts the only indicators that she was with child.
      "It smells good in here," Paige said. "Whatcha cookin?" she asked coyly.
"Weed," Maxine replied. "You cool with that?"
"Girl," Paige said, "You better fire me up. The trip was a killer." "That is never a problem," Maxxy said and produced a leaded bong
from behind a door in the coffee table.
"Kush," Maxxy said. "I also got dat SD." "Mmmm. I love Sweet Diesel."
"No, this is Sour Diesel. Fire." "Hit me. I never had that before."
Three bowls later, they were baked.
"I love mixing weed," Paige said. "Do you know why it gets you so

high?"


Maxine shook her head no.
"There	are	three	components	to	a	marijuana	high:	intensity,

duration, and how it affects your body. Each strain of pot, and each individual plant, has an array of components that cause these three elements to vary. So when you combine multiple types, you maximize those three things. I call it "blendo".
      "Heh, I only know it gets you fucked up," Maxine said. "But I call it "Bin Laden" because it's a killer."
"Heh, I like that. Bin Laden." Paige said.

      "Aren't you worried, you know, about the baby?" Paige asked, pointing at her stomach.
"Nah," Maxine said. "My mom stayed high, and I'm fine." "You sure are," Paige said in response.
"Oh, stop" Maxine said.
"I'm serious," Paige said. "Pregnancy suits you. You're aglow." "Plus temporary breast augmentation," Maxine added.
"No kidding," Paige said.
      "But, anecdotal evidence aside, there have been studies conducted on the babies of pot smokers. Jamaican women drink it in tea all day long. Statistically, their babies are calmer and bigger than ours."
"Wow," Paige said.
      "I know," Maxxy agreed. "And they found no ill effects, besides. Hell, they found a four-thousand year old corpse of a woman who died during child birth. She had pot gruel with her to ease her birthing pains."
"No kidding," Paige said. "So it's been with us for a while."
      "Well, consider this. People had to learn how to ferment alcohol. All they had to do was eat pot leaves. So how far ahead does that put marijuana? A hundred thousand years? A million?"
"You're right. I never thought about that."
      "See after I got pregnant, I got a little depressed. So I went to the doctor. He prescribed me Prozac. I went home and read the side effects. Something like five minor birth defects associated with it. What the fuck is a minor birth defect? I threw that shit in the trash and got a pound of sixteen different kinds of indo."
"Wow."
      Maxine dug around on her desk and produced a hand-written list, which she handed to Paige.
      It looked like Paige had, or at least had tried everything on the list, other than the new diesel, but the last entry made her tingle.
"Chocolate Thai, seriously?" Paige asked. "Yeah, what's that? Is it good?"
"I'd like to try that one next. It's legendary. Fabled." "Paige, I have something I need you to give Jean."
      "I need to talk to you about Jean. What do you want to give him?" Paige asked.
"This," Maxine said, and kissed her on the mouth.

      The two women melted into each other, embracing as tightly as before, but now they kissed each other as though neither had been kissed before.
      Paige ran her hands up and down Maxine's belly, and Maxxy moaned with delight. She needed the validation that she was still desirable, and like a magician, Paige was giving it in spades.
      Paige was out of her jacket and skirt, now clad in a wife-beater that served as a bra, and a matching thong-panty-merry widow-stocking combo.
      Maxine kissed Paige hard and delivered a series of firm pinches up and down her sides. Paige spread her legs wider with each burst of pain.
      Paige raised the front of Maxxy's t-shirt and delivered a batch of kisses to her stomach. Maxines's sweatshirt was over her head in a flash. Paige tugged once at Maxine's sweat pants waistband, and they too fell away.
      The merger of their two bodies was electric. They fit together so well, with Paige wrapping herself around Maxxy's exaggerated curves as if they were once a matching set cast from the same mold.
Paige pawed at Maxine's bra-covered breasts. "Mama," Paige said.
      There was a sound of velcro and suddenly Maxine's nipples were jutting out, standing at rigid attention.
"Nursing bra," Maxxy whispered.
      Paige didn't need to be told twice. Her mouth fell upon Maxine's breasts, and she was immediately rewarded with a mouthful of the sweetest milk she had ever tasted.
      She sucked greedily on Maxxy's nipples, swallowing all the while. When Paige began to feel full and satisfied, she brought a mouthful to Maxxy and let it run out of her mouth onto Maxine's lips. Maxine opened her own mouth to receive it.
      Soon, her face and breasts were covered with milk droplets, and Paige used her tongue to clean her up. It was all too much for both of them. They stripped each other bare, and Paige gingerly climbed on top of Maxine in a sixty-nine.
      Their mouths and fingers went to work on each other immediately. Within a minute, they achieved the first of many simultaneous orgasms. After their fourth together, they fell asleep in each other's arms.
###

      The suspense was killing Jean. He called Maxxy before he had even gotten to East L.A. but there was no answer. That didn't worry him, as she always turned her ringer off when she slept. And lately he had been telling her that she had been sleeping her life away.
      But he could come up with no plausible scenario that would have her napping before she updated him. Then again, he thought, she didn't know why it was so important.
      Jean decided that she must have felt everything was fine, and so there was no real urgency to call him right away. Good news, he felt.
      When he thought he was sufficiently lost in the inner barrio, Jean selected an inconspicuous looking motel, The Siesta Barato, and checked in.
      He had a single rolled joint in his shirt pocket and he fired it up as soon as the door shut behind him. Jean pulled open the drawer of the nightstand and removed the Bible.
      At one time, donated Gideon Bibles were the standard, found in all hotel rooms. Jean made a point of checking the book of Revelation each time he encountered a new Bible.
      In this particular edition the word 'vial' was used extensively, which was reassuring. But better yet, he read this verse, 16.2: "When the second vial was opened a litany of plagues was visited upon all men bearing the mark of the beast."
Jean smiled broadly. He couldn't have said it better himself.
      He placed another call to Maxxy, to no avail. Enough, he thought. She'll see the incoming calls when she checks her phone, get the point and call him back.
      Still, he worried about her, it was his nature to worry. He dialed Pookie for some anti-worry medication.
"Sup, G?"
      "Pooike, I might need to roll through again. Or do you have people in East L.A?"
"Fool, I got people in Japan. Same issue?"
      Jean gave Pookie the pertinent info and then put a thousand dollars under the driver's seat, leaving his car unlocked.
      It occurred to Jean that since he was facing prison time or the death penalty, and was going to radically change the world in the next week perhaps a full pound of weed was a tad excessive.

      But, as always, Pookie was true to his word. Within an hour, Jean had received a text from a number he didn't recognize, telling him the car loan matter had been resolved, Pookie's code words.
      He would be on pins and needles until he heard from Maxxy, and even if she had good news, he couldn't relax.
      He wondered if he should change motels every night, and decided against it. He was already going out of his mind with boredom and anxiety, with his boredom giving him plenty of time to grow more anxious.
      The TV offered no comfort, of course, except to reinforce the notion that he was doing the right thing. Wars, famine, murder, a failed world economy. Jean knew things could be better.
Would be better.

Chapter 38 - Collusion
      Paige woke up with her head on Maxxy's shoulder, nestled in the crook of her arm with one hand still cupping a swollen breast. Maxine's hand languidly caressed her back, even as she slept.
      Paige opened one eye and saw Maxine's phone on the night stand, a light flashing to indicate missed calls. Her mind began to stir as she remembered why she had come in the first place.
"Maxxy," she whispered. Maxine clawed her back and squeezed her

tighter.


"Maxxy, wake up,"
"Mmm?" Maxine said without opening her eyes. "We need to talk about Jean." Paige told her.
"Jean who?" Maxine said as she extended her arm to squeeze the

cheek of Paige's ass.
"I think he's in trouble."
      Maxine now sprang instantly awake, sitting up and summarily dropping Paige where she lay.
"What?"
      "Well,"	Paige	started,	"I	think	he's	involved	in	something dangerous. I hope I'm wrong.
      "Dangerous? Like what?" Maxine was puzzled. Despite his image, she felt Jean had the same potential for danger as a declawed kitten.
Maxine Jackson knew dangerous. Jean was not it. "Well, you're going to think I'm crazy."
      Paige recounted her initial meeting with Jean, and then told her about the peculiarities of the Manson case.
      "So?" Maxine said petulantly, "What does that have to do with my Jeaner?"
      "I contacted him about it, just to try and gain some understanding about the, uh, story."
Telling Maxine she was a cop was going to be difficult. "And because you wanted to fuck him, right?" "Well..."
      "Girl, it's ok." Maxine's fears of infidelity now paled in light of this potential threat to Jean's well-being.
"Ok, I was interested. It's nothing against you, Maxxy." "I know, get on with it," she prompted Paige.

      "After lunch that day, he said he was going to USC, but he headed east instead. Remember what you told me about your honeymoon?"
"About Colorado?"
"Yeah," Paige said. "It happened again, there. Same symptoms.
Except several people died."
"Have you ever heard of coincidence?" Maxine said sharply. "Maxine, in my line of work, you learn to trust your intuition and
gut feelings. I'm just worried about him, ok? If I'm wrong, no harm done. Besides, I would never have met you otherwise, right?"
      This Maxine did understand. Many a time, her own instincts had helped her avoid unfavorable situations. In her former line of work, ignoring your basic instincts could spell death.
"So what do you think is going on?"
Paige looked her in the eyes. "I think Jean made that virus." "Shiiit," Maxine said. "You're crazy."
      "I hope so, Maxine. I hope I'm wrong about everything. Otherwise a lot of people will die."
"I think you need to leave." "What?"
      "You heard me. You're not gonna come in my home and accuse my man of being a murderer. I think if I wasn't pregnant, I might whip your ass."
      "You have to help me, Maxxy. Jean could be in a lot of trouble. If I'm wrong, no big deal. Kick my ass. But if you're wrong, you may never see him again."
Maxine pondered this in silence.
"I'm afraid if we don't stop him, someone else will."
"And what do you care?" Maxine said, eyes welling with potential
tears.
"I don't want him hurt or arrested Maxine. I care about him. I care
about you..."
      Maxxy broke down, collapsing into Paige, who became inundated with tears. She heaved and sobbed in Paige's arms for a long while.
      When the tears had diminished to the point of stopping, Paige stroked Maxine's hair and waited for her to speak.
"What do we do?" she asked Paige.

      "I think we need to do a little investigating on our own before we do anything else. Do you know anyone from school that could help? I need background info. I don't want to keep running around making outlandish accusations."
"I know a few people," Maxxy said. And then, "I'm calling Jean." "Hold on, Maxine. What are you going to tell him?"
"I'm not going to say anything about this shit, don't worry." Maxine hit one on her speed dial and he answered on the first ring. "Hey!" he said. "How are you?"
"Hey, Jean. I'm fine. Did you call?"
"Yeah. I just wanted to say hi, I guess. I really miss you."
      "I know, I miss you, too. I think I'm ready for you to come see me, Mr. Simons..."
      "You are?" Jean said. "That's great. I'm a little tied up at work this week, but how does next Monday sound? I'll stay all week, or longer."
"How about forever?"
"Mmmm, that sounds nice. I've had my fill of California honestly." "Me too, Jeaner. Me too."
"How did the meeting with the reporter go? Did you talk to her

yet?"


"Yeah, I did." She looked at Paige. "She's fucking hot." "Did she ask a lot of questions?"
"Yeah. Pretty standard stuff, I think. Why?"
"Oh, I was just wondering. Who's she with again?" "You know, I forgot to ask."
"I love you, Maxine O. Jackson."
"And I love you, Jean A. Simons. Will I really see you soon?" "Yes, I promise. Very soon."
"I can't wait." "Mmm, me either." "Call me soon?" "You know I will."
"Ok, then. I love you. Goodbye!" "I love you, angel. Byeee..."
Jean hung up thinking Alabama would be a good place to lay low

for while. Maxine hung up and looked for D-Generation's number on her phone.

"D-Gen. How may I direct your call?" "Jean Simons, please."
There was a pause, and then the receptionist said, "I'm sorry, Mr.
Simons is on personal leave this week. Would you like his voice mail?" "No, thanks."
      When Maxine had disconnected, she said, "That motherfucker just lied to me!"
"Maybe he's planning something," Paige suggested.
      "Maybe he's digging out some bitch," Maxxy said with a voice that dripped venom.
      "I really wish he was, Maxine. I don't think that's the case. Who can we talk to at the university?"
      "His professor, for one. And maybe Jimbrowski. Jean didn't have a lot of friends. Just colleagues and women he slept with."
      "Until you came along," Paige reminded her. She couldn't move forward until she came clean with Maxxy.
      "Maxine, I have to tell you something. Hear me out before you say anything, okay?"
Maxine nodded. "I'm not a reporter." "Bitch, what?"
"Listen to me. I'm on your side. But I'm a detective."
      Paige expected to see anger on Maxine's face, but instead there was an emotion she couldn't make out.
      Suddenly, Maxine jumped up and ran to the bathroom. This was followed shortly by retching sounds. Paige rushed in beside her and held her hair. Maxine made no effort to resist her aid.
      But when Maxine was done, she got up and rinsed with mouthwash for a long time.
When she had finished, Paige asked, "Morning sickness?"
      Maxine looked at her coldly and said, "No, I had to get the taste of cop pussy out of my mouth."
The comment stung Paige to her core.
      "Maxxy, I'm not out to arrest Jean. But I do want to stop him, if he's really behind this."
      "I...hate...cops," Maxine said bluntly, dragging each word out for emphasis.

      "I arrest murderers. I know you've had friends killed, considering your background."
"Yeah, I have. And the cops have never helped, not once.

      But I had a friend killed by 'em. I had another friend thrown in prison for a murder he didn't do. So don't tell me shit 'bout no police."
Maxine stared at her defiantly.
      "Do you want them to get Jean?" Paige asked softly. Maxine shook her head no.
"Ok, then. It is too late to go to school today?" Maxine consulted her watch.
      "No, most of the faculty say until five or so, whether they have classes or not."
She dialed the campus directory number from memory. "Dr. Woodard, please."
"One moment."
There was a slight pause and then, "Hello, Dr. Woodard speaking." "Hi, Dr. Woodard. You might remember me from one of your
classes. I'm a friend of one your prot�g�s..." "Jean Simons," Dr Woodard said. "Yes, how did you know?"
"Oh, he spoke very highly of you, believe me. And often."
      "I have a reporter with me, she'd like to ask you a few questions for an article she's writing. Would it be possible to meet with you? Or is today a bad time for you?"
"No, today is as good a time as any. I'll be here, Ms. Jackson." "Thank you, Dr. Woodard."
"No problem. See you soon."
      Paige and Maxine looked at each other. "Bin Laden," they said together. Instead Maxine pulled out a Rizzla paper that was five inches long and cut up a big bud of the chocolate Thai Paige had expressed an interest in trying.
      She quickly rolled a huge loose joint and said, "Let's roll, it's a twenty minute drive."
      They had to put it out before they were halfway finished. They were way too high.
"Ommmm," Maxine said.

"Duhhhh," Paige said.
And they both giggled like mad women.
      It was only a few hundred yards from the parking lot to Dr. Woodard's office, but to the two of them, it looked like miles. They began the walk leaning on each other, and then simply continued to hold hands after they'd gotten their sea legs.
Outside of the building entrance, Paige said, "Well, that was fun." "Come 'ere you," Maxine said, and covered Paige's lips with her

own. said.

They kissed, but Paige broke away early, "Don't get me started," she "Don't ever lie to me again, Paige. Ok?"
"I won't," Paige promised. Then she realized something at that

point. To be a detective was to be a liar. She didn't have a problem with that as long as she didn't have to lie to Maxine. Or Bryce. Or Jean.
      The weed was really fucking with her. Had she really lied to everyone around her? She wondered how P.J. and the twins were faring back at the office.
###
      It was a Tuesday morning when the chief returned to the office. He hadn't bothered to keep tabs on work for two reasons: he wasn't getting paid for it and he had put Paige Burner in charge. He arrived at five a.m., an hour early, to take stock of the situation.
      First, he stuck his head inside Paige's office door. There was a massive white board covering the wall between their offices full of incomprehensible gibberish. He counted no less than seven computers, four laptops and three desktop machines, connected by a serpentine mass of wires.
      In the corner next to the coffee pot were her congratulatory flowers, now two weeks dead. The chief just clucked and shook his head. It was her office, after all. And he was sure there was a good reason for the computers, although for the life of him he couldn't imagine what it was.
It was when the chief saw his own office that he really hit the roof.
It was largely empty.
      The eight file cabinets, representing over thirty years of detective work, were gone. In there place were a number of ficus trees and irises arranged around a goldfish pond, complete with a little turtle.

      His desk was as barren as the room itself. There was a placard with his name on it, and empty in-out box, and a monitor, mouse and keyboard. Terry felt like he'd been robbed.
      But the final ignominy was the Zen garden on the corner of his desk. It was a wooden box full of white sand and a few decorative stones. There was also a little rake you could use to make patterns in the sand.
      It was such an affront to the chief's sensibilities that he threw the entire box into the wastepaper basket.
He went back to Paige's office and waited.
      He had planned on sitting in her chair and looking out of the window, so he could turn around dramatically and say "Hello Paige," like some James Bond villain.
      But the chief being the chief, he couldn't contain himself. He turned toward the door and started yelling as soon as he heard the knob turn.
"Goddamnitt, Burner, what in the fuck-"
But it wasn't Paige. It was someone he didn't quite recognize. "Well, who the fuck are you?" he demanded of the interloper. "Detective Philip Johnson, sir."
      "I don't have a goddamn Detective fucking Johnson. What the fuck planet is this? I go away for two weeks, and I'm in goddamn Bizarroville."
"It's Earth, sir. And Paige promoted me."
      "Where the fuck is Burner, and why are you in her office, goddamnit?"
"To answer both of your questions, sir, she's in Alabama." "Alabama?	Goddamn,	what	kind	of	shit-kicking	crackerbox
operation are we running here, now?"
"Yes sir, Alabama. I'm not sure why. A big case, she said."
      "A big case? In Alabama? A big case of cheap beer, maybe. A big case of the clap. What state is this, goddamnit?"
"California, sir."
      "Then why the fuck is my goddamn lead detective working a case in Ala-fucking-bama? What case?"
"I don't know, sir. She said it was important." "Important? More important than her job?"
      P.J. was finally stunned into silence. Just then John and Lisa Chang walked in. Upon seeing the chief's expression, they excused themselves, backed out of the office and closed the door as they left.

"Who was that, the goddamned Chang twins?" "Yes, sir. The Chang twins."
The chief felt P.J. was being sarcastic. "You're fired. They're fired.
Paige Burner is fired. Anyone I see today is fired. Now get out."
      P.J. didn't utter a word of protest, but instead left the room in silence, head down. How would he explain this to his pregnant wife?
      He found the twins in the break room. I wonder what the chief would think of the fruit bar, he thought.
"You guys want to go get some breakfast?" he asked them. They did.
###
      As if she could read her mind, Maxine said, "Don't worry about anything," and led her up the steps and into the building.
      They found Dr. Woodard sitting patiently at his desk, reading an online e-zine.
      "I love a nice painting of a naked woman holding a ukulele, don't you?" he said absentmindedly at their arrival.
"Sure!" Maxine said. "I know I do." "Doesn't everyone?" Paige asked.
      Both tried desperately to contain their giggles and found that they could not.
      "Well, I'm glad you ladies are having a good afternoon. Enchanting perfume you're both wearing, I must say. What an intoxicating aroma."
He grinned at them both.
      "Dr. Woodard," Maxine began, "this is, uh, Sarah...Conner, the reporter I was telling you about. She has questions for an article about Jean and others, and we thought you'd be a good person to start with."
      Paige asked Woodard a few questions about himself to get him warmed up and then switched gears.
      "Bioterrorism. Would you say the threat comes more from groups or individuals?"
      Dr. Woodard tried to choose his words carefully and became flustered by the change in direction and the magnitude of the question.
      "Well, er, ah. While this is primarily considered a military project, there remains the possibility of going beyond, say releasing anthrax or botulism, and creating something new. Or perhaps discovering an existing but unknown disease."

      "Isn't this cost-prohibitive? Doesn't it cost tens of millions of dollars?"
      "Actually, that assumes you'd be starting from scratch. If you have access to the facilities, and genomes, all it costs is your time."
"You don't say. So what is our best defense in this situation?" Dr. Woodard looked puzzled.
      "Defense? I'm afraid there isn't any. I don't mean to spoil the media's no-doubt rosy yet terrifying view of biological warfare, but there are no defenses against it. All you can do is try and minimize the casualties."
      I suppose one could make the argument we should stay out of the affairs of others, both international and domestic. That would be our ultimate best defense. Stop trying to run the lives of others. What sickness in man deigns him to think that he should own or control another?"
Dr. Woodard paused for a moment and then looked around startled. "Sorry," he said. "I seem to be a bit more passionate on the subject
than I thought I was."
He blinked.
      "No, this is great stuff, Dr. Woodard. Thank you so much. You've been very helpful."
      "Hey, Doc," Maxine said. "We also wanted to look up James Brown."
Dr. Woodard blinked again. "On Google?" he asked.
"No, the James Brown that went to school with Jean, Jimbrowski." "Oh, Jimbrowski. Why didn't you say so?"
He turned to his computers.
      "I'm	afraid	University	policy	prohibits	me	from	disclosing confidential or proprietary information. I could lose my job."
The girls looked at each other, unsure of how to move forward. "...but I've never given a damn about their rules." He sent a page to
his printer.
      "Here you go," he said. "After all, I know if two hot young women came looking for me, I'd kill the man who didn't give them my number."
Dr. Woodard attempted to wink, with some success.
"Thanks again, Doc." Maxine said. "You've been a big help." "Yes, thank you so much," Paige added.

      And with that, they said goodbye. As they were walking out the door, Dr. Woodard said, "Good luck girls. I hope you catch that pesky terminator."
      Both girls turned red with embarrassment and erupted into peals of laughter after they rounded the corner out of sight.
Maxine got serious again, just as quickly. "Did we learn anything?" she asked Paige.
      "Well," Paige said "It doesn't prove anything, but when I posed the same question to Jean, he said it was a very expensive process. Either he was making an assumption, or he was snowing me."
      "Um," Maxine said. "Good programmers don't make assumptions. Jean drilled this into my head since early on. The first time you accept a value and fail to check it against bounds, you've created a potential bug and security hazard."
She exhaled sharply.
      "So I think, if you'll pardon the irony, that it is safe to assume he realizes some people can create viruses at a nominal cost. In other words-"
"The motherfucker lied to me," Paige said. "How does it feel?" Maxxy asked her.
Paige pretended to think about it. "No sir, I didn't like it."
"Me either," Maxxy said.
"Especially under these circumstances."

Chapter 39 - Confirmation
      Maxxy dialed the number Dr. Woodard provided. Paige could only hear half of the conversation.
"JBeezy, my nurga!"
       "I'll say what the fuck I want. It doesn't even mean that, it means nerd," Maxxy said.
       "I don't care. I'm going to say what I want, and no cracker-ass white boy is going to lecture me on how to be black."
  "Yeah? Well fuck you, too." Maxine hung up abruptly.
"Now what do we do?" Paige asked, puzzled by the predicament. "Oh, he said to meet him at Verano's Pizza for lunch. That's just
how we talk to each other."
Paige remained somewhat confused.
      At Verano's, Jimbrowski stood and waved them over, standing out like a swollen thumb in his formal business attire.
"Damn, Beachball," he said as Maxine neared him.
      "Nice clown suit, fuckhead," Maxine replied. But they embraced warmly. He seated them both, and then turned to Paige.
"So, who's the slice?"
      "James Brown, I present to you Paige Burner. She's a reporter. Or so she claims."
"Hi," JB said.
Paige merely nodded, somewhat ticked off by his 'slice' comment.
      Maxine continued. "She's doing an article on Jean and genome research, and I thought you'd be a good person to talk to."
"Oh, well, sure. If it's about the almighty Jean Simons, no problem." "JBeezy be nice. That's my baby daddy."
"No kidding? I thought maybe you'd found a decent man by now." "Nope, still Jeaner. I mean, he is a decent man, you ass. But we're
an ongoing concern. He doesn't know I'm pregnant, though. Don't tell him."
      "Tell him?" I last talked to him after graduation. And judging by your appearance, if he doesn't know he's a daddy, you haven't seen him in almost that long. What gives?"
"I'm just finishing school, first." "Yeah, but why not tell him?"

"I don't want to ruin our relationship."
      "Erm, Maxxy? Lying about a baby is probably a good way to ruin a relationship."
      "I hope not. But if he knew I was pregnant, do you think he'd be working in California?"
"No. He'd be here with you."
      "Or he'd want me to go there. And then there goes school, at least for a while. And I won't go back without a degree."
      "I guess I can understand that. Um, should we be talking about this in front of the help?" He nodded in Paige's direction.
      "What, her? That's beyond the scope of her article. Besides, she and I have an understanding. Don't we, Paige?"
      "That we do, Mrs. Simons, nee Jackson. I just need background info, Mr. Browski. Can I use your name in the article?"
"Who? Me? Sure." "Great."
      Once again Paige disarmed her interviewee by asking him background questions about himself, then moved in for the kill.
      "As someone who's worked closely with Jean Simons, how would you rate his skills in the lab? Is he more of a theorist and a programmer, or a hands-on guy?"
Jimbrowski thought about this.
      "He's both. Whatever I think about the guy on a personal level, I have to admit, he's the best I've ever met. A lot of the physical cutting and splicing we do is handled via robots and proxies, but if Jean got impatient, he'd do it by hand. Very skilled."
      "Finally, what do you make of the threat that comes from so called designer viruses?"
      "Oh, I think it's pretty much inevitable that one will escape the lab, accidentally or on purpose. If it hasn't happened already."
"AIDS?" Paige asked.
"Uh, no comment," JB wisely replied.
While they were talking, Maxxy came back from the buffet with two

salads.


"I hope you like ranch," she told Paige. "Ranch, hell. Where's the pizza?"
"Oh, I just assumed you never ate real food. With your narrow ass."

"You'd be surprised," Paige said. "What's your excuse?"
      "Well, I was reading about nutrition and the baby. About the only thing I can eat on that pizza is the sauce, and even then only if it's organic and not from a can."
      "Sucks to be you," Paige said and headed off to the buffet. But she was actually thinking about how lucky Maxine was. She had Jean, she had the baby, she was smart, and she was sexy.
      With Jean's brains and her good looks, or her brains and his good looks, their baby was destined to be special indeed. Of course, Jean might be the biggest mass murderer on the planet, so it wasn't necessarily an ideal pairing.
      Paige's longing and loneliness caused her to return from the bar with six slices of pizza. When she saw Maxxy, she felt a little more of both.
"Are you two catching up?" Paige asked, pushing her salad to the
side.
"Actually," JBeezy said, "I have to run. It was nice meeting you,
Paige. Maxxy, tell Jean if he asses out in Cali, he can always work for me." "Heh, I'll do that, Jimmy. Take care."
"You too. And take care of that baby for me." "Ok, I will. Bye."
"Bye."
As soon as he was gone, Maxine said, "Well?" "That motherfucker-"
"-lied to you. Ok, I get it. About what?" "He said he wasn't too good in the lab." "Maybe he was being modest?"
"Does that sound like Jean?" "No, of course not."
"Are we noticing a pattern here?"
      "He does seem to be lying a lot about genome research. Which is not something people ordinarily lie about, I'd say."
      "Right. And you have to admit everything we've heard so far tends to support my belief. I just wish we had something more solid to go off of."
      As if on cue, Paige's phone rang. It was Bryce. They spoke for a few moments, and then Paige hung up the phone.
"What?" Maxxy said.

      "We have someone who says they saw Jean in the Colorado resort where several people recently died. Do we really need to know anything else at this point?"
      "I guess not," Maxxy said. "Shit. I was hoping this was all a big misunderstanding. Like maybe you read too much internet conspiracy theory or something."
"I'm sorry, Maxine. I wish I was wrong. I have to get to the airport." "You have to get to the airport? What about Maxine?"
"Oh, sorry, I didn't think-"
      "Just leave Maxine's big pregnant ass behind, eh? I see how it is." She smiled broadly.
      "Well, then let's go get you some clothes from home. We might not have time to shop on Rodeo Drive once we get there. But really, I didn't realize you'd want to come."
      "My husband's possibly going to prison, and or killing lots of people. Of course I'm going. I'm gonna kick his ass when we find him."
###
      Jean was immensely bored. The television held little interest for him under the best of circumstances. Even the internet was boring to him, at this point.
      He rolled an joint so big it required two Zig-Zags, and proceeded to get higher than he had been in months. Then he pocketed the vial of Captain Trips and drove to the nearby mall.
      As he walked among the teeming mass of largely Mexican and Chicano families, Jean wondered how their lives might be different, were they not laboring to serve the interests of others.
He walked into the restroom and felt the vial in his pocket.
      Too soon, he thought. And then an idea, a voice entered his head. They're coming for you, it said. Jean rushed back to the motel and spent the remainder of the day fondling his gun and brooding.
Friday was two days away.
###
      Paige and Maxxy rushed back to the apartment and began packing. Then they decided to smoke. This led them to realize how horny they both were.
      They looked into each other's eyes, and the tension between them was electric. The stresses they were undergoing demanded release. Both

had been deprived far too long.
But Jean's life was at stake.
"Let me book our flight," Paige said.
      Luckily, she knew which airline she needed. Ten minutes later, she had their flight information. The departure time gave them an hour to play.
Enthused, Maxine dug in her closet.
      "Look what I found," she said, waving about an oversized strap-on with harness.
      "Yow!" Paige exclaimed. She had never used one, but often thought about it.
      They stripped each other bare, and then Maxine knelt as best she could to help Paige put it on, kissing, licking and biting her as she buckled the straps.
      "How do I look?" Paige asked, wagging her prosthetic penis in Maxine's face.
"Ridiculous," she said, kissing the tip of it. "Now get over here." "Wait!" Paige said, grabbing her phone.
"What are you doing?"
"We have one hour. You have thirty minutes." "I'm not complaining," she said.
      They kissed and embraced, edging closer to the bed. When they reached it, Maxine laid back, her feet dangling over the edge.
      Paige was positioned to enter her when she felt a momentary twinge of guilt. "Wait," she said, "Should we doing this?"
"Shut up and fuck me," Maxxy demanded.
      After they had spent their hour together, they quickly showered together, which almost caused them to miss their flight.
Their new toy flew with them to California.
###
      They rested on each other during the flight, which included a bout of motion sickness on Maxine's part.
      By the time they'd reached Paige's apartment, it was too late to do much other than relax and plan the next day's events.
      She checked her messages, and found she had received a rather urgent one from P.J.
      "Paige, the chief is back, and he went crazy and fired everyone. Is there any way you can straighten this out? I'm scared to tell my wife I don't

have a job, and I had to spend the day at the library."
      Her work-related problems seemed far removed from her current worries, but she owed it P.J. to try and fix things in the morning.
      Paige pulled out her tray and put Sade on the stereo. As they smoked, they discussed Jean and how to handle him.
"Do you think I should call him?" Maxine asked.
      "I'm not really sure. You know him a lot better than I. Will he get suspicious if you suddenly tell him you're here?"
      "He shouldn't. But it is pretty strange that I would show up unannounced."
      "I think we should try and follow him first. We need to find him, and we can't risk making him skittish."
"And then what?"
"We take him into protective custody." "What? You said you wouldn't arrest him!"
"No, our protective custody, silly. We can kidnap him and keep him

safe."


"Mmmm, that does sound kind of fun." "We may have to reprogram him." "Mmmm."
The Sade was having the desired effect on them both, and Paige

knew they couldn't resist each other for more than a few more minutes.
Why delay the inevitable, Paige wondered. "Do you like porn?" she asked Maxxy bluntly. "Does Jada Fire have a big ass?"
"Wow, you really know your stuff. Sasha Grey?" "Too skinny. But gorgeous."
"Ashley Blue?" "So filthy!"
"Annette Schwartz?" "Who?"
"Oh, you're in for a treat..."
      Paige out on 'Battle of the Sluts 3' and told Maxine she would be right back.
      She went to the rear of her closet and dug out her old street clothes from her pre-detective days. She dressed quickly and still managed to make the old uniform look pretty sharp.

      Once she was dressed, she donned her side arm, handcuffs and baton. After checking it twice to be sure it wasn't loaded, she replaced the
.45 she was issued with her new pink gun.
She grabbed a condom from the nightstand for good measure. Just
in case.
Paige walked up behind Maxine, who was engrossed in the movie
Paige had put on for her.
  "Cavity search, Ma'am," she whispered in Maxxy's ear. "What the-" Maxine said with a start when she saw Paige. "Are you resisting?" Paige asked, pulling out her baton.
"No, officer, I don't want any trouble," Maxine said. "I'm going to need you to disrobe, Ma'am."
"Are you going to hurt me, officer?' I'm not resisting."
      "You appear to be concealing something," Paige said, pointing at Maxine's stomach. "I'm going to need you to spread your legs when you finish undressing."
"All of my clothes?" "Every stitch, ma'am."
      When she had undressed, Maxine leaned back on the sofa, but didn't spread her legs as her arresting officer had ordered her to.
      Paige drew her nightstick and Maxine drew a sharp breath at the sight of it.
      She poked at her inner thighs with the nightstick, but Maxxy refused.
"Spread 'em," Paige ordered her.
Maxine looked her in the eyes and then shook her head side to side.
      Whack! Paige smacked her lightly across her closed legs. Maxine let out a whimper, and then slowly opened her legs wide. Even then, she received two more sharp blows to her thighs.
      When Paige started to slide the nightstick in, Maxine began to lose her mind. When she applied Ms. Kitty, it can be said that Maxxy fully lost her mind. She began thrashing and thrusting forward so hard that it might have fallen out if it wasn't so long. Paige was momentarily concerned for the baby's safety.
      When Maxine's gyrations had subsided, Paige relaxed and moved in to kiss her.
In a flash, Maxxy had her weapon.


Paige.

"Now you strip, you filthy cop bitch," she said pointing the gun at

She was momentarily taken aback. Paige had been too highly

trained to be comfortable with the idea of being disarmed by a perp. And she somehow wasn't entirely if this was still fun and games.
She raised and eyebrow at Maxxy, as if to say, "really?"
In return, Maxxy gave her a look that said, "Please play along?"
      Without any more hesitation Paige dropped her uniform to the floor and stood before Maxine naked, save for the police hat still atop her head.
      Maxine grabbed her by the back of her neck and thrust her face-first toward the couch. Paige let out a long, worried moan.
      When Maxxy had positioned her on her knees with her hands on the back of the couch, Paige felt the cold touch of gun metal between her legs.
  "W-what are you doing?" she asked in a frightened little girl voice. "I'm gonna get me some cop pussy," Maxxy said in her ear.
"Please," Paige whined. "Use a condom..."
      Maxine looked around and saw one sitting on the couch beside them. How convenient.
      At the sound of the package being opened, Paige began to tremble as if she were freezing.
      Maxine began to rub the sheathed pistol up and down Paige's slit. She gradually picked up the pace and then alternated between pushing on her clit with the gun and sliding it further and further inside her.
      Soon, Maxxy had her thumb on Paige's clit with the gun venturing into her as far as it could possibly go. When she sensed Paige was on the verge of orgasm, she held it pushed fully inside her and pulled the trigger.
      At the sound of the click from the gun, Paige began to orgasm. It was explosive.
      Her screams rattled the dishes. To Maxine's delight, Paige underwent female ejaculation for the first time, and a warm stream of fluid was ejected onto Maxxy's hand and arm.
When Paige was finished Maxine held her on the couch. "You're crazy," Maxine said. "I like that."
  "I'm crazy?" Paige asked. "You pulled the trigger." "Oh, I checked it, you big baby. I knew it wasn't loaded."
"I checked it, too." Paige said. "See?"

"I love you, Maxxy." "I love you, Paige."
  "What are we gonna do with Jean?" Paige asked her. "Oh, I have a few ideas. But we have to find him first."

Chapter 40 - Big Chief
      The next morning Paige and Maxine went in to see the chief. They decided the least they could do was to not be high at six a.m. Of course they had a Bin Laden waiting for them in the car, as it was going to be a long day, in their estimation.
      They arrived at five forty-five and the chief's office was still dark. They almost turned around and went to sit in the lobby when Paige noticed out a faint light coming from her office next door.
      She opened the door and the chief's head popped up from her desk, where he had presumably been sleeping. Before his eyes were fully open, he was yelling.
      "Burner, what the g-" he began. But when Maxine stepped in after Paige, he immediately stopped as quickly as he started.
"Hi, chief. I'm sorry I'm late."
"Burner, who's your friend?" the chief asked. "Maxine Jackson, this is Terry, my boss and mentor." "Hi, chief," Maxine said breezily.
"Hello," he said. It was as if he had forgotten how to curse. "Where have you been?' he asked in a carefully measured tone. "I have a case."
"What's the case number? Not that I have any files." "There's no case number, chief."
"Then you don't have a case."
"Chief, people have died. I think more people may die."
      "Well, in my department, we have procedures. No case number means no case. We don't go rogue, Burner."
"Chief, I took the time off. I'm not doing this on the clock." "I don't have the paperwork on that, either."
      "It's right here, chief." She walked around the desk and hit 'Main Menu' on the computer touch screen.
      "See?" she said. "You hit 'Personnel' and drill down to my name. Paige Burner - time off request. And if you touch the little document, you can view a scan of the original."
"Who did this?" Terry asked, "IT?"
"No, chief, we did. The people you fired." The chief was silent for a measure.

      "No one was fired," he said. "I just lost my temper. Except you. I'm not sure what to do with you, yet. I put you in charge, and you abandoned your post."
"Chief-"
      "Now ordinarily, that would be unforgivable. But, you are my best detective, and you seem to think you have a good reason. So let's hear it."
Paige thought about it, "Yeah, I can't talk about that right now." Terry turned the color of a ripe plum. "In case you're wrong?"
      "No, in case I'm right. Look, chief, fire me if you want to. But P.J. didn't do anything wrong. Neither did the twins."
"Is their name Chang?"
"Yes. How did you know? Did you check with HR?"
"Uh, no. I was a little hasty in firing them all. What exactly do they

do?"



look."


"Well, they designed your new office." "I hate it."
"No, your paperless office. They did the IT work. It's really neat,

Paige proceeded to give him a quick tour of the software on her

desktop machine.
      "I have to say, I'm impressed. And I think you know I'm not easily impressed. My office, though, is so damn relaxing." He looked at Maxxy and said "I couldn't think in there."
      Maxine, of course, had no idea what his office was like before or after the controversial renovation.
"It's just...fruity," the chief said.
"Oh, that reminds me!" Paige said, jumping up. "It's six o'clock.
Come on."
      She brought the chief and Maxine down the hall to the break room. Inside was a double-burner coffee pot, a cappuccino machine, and a gleaming stainless salad bar.
"Burner!" the chief started.
      "There's a lady present, chief," Paige reminded him, tilting her eyes in Maxxy's direction. "And she's pregnant."
She smirked at Maxine, and Maxine rolled her eyes in return. "Here," Paige said handing the chief a pair of disposable gloves. He
regarded her as though she were trying to hand him a live fish.

"Here," she repeated, more forcefully.
With some reluctance, he accepted the gloves.
      Paige seated Maxine at a table and brought her coffee, milk and a banana.
      "What, no orange juice?" Maxxy jokingly said. Paige merely sighed and brought her an individual serving of orange juice as well.
"Sorry," she said. "Mommies have to keep up their strength, right?"
      Paige realized she knew absolutely nothing about children or pregnancy. Maxine looked at her lovingly, "Thank you," she said softly.
      Paige ran the water in the sink and pulled out a huge array of fruit: mangos, papayas, kiwis, and a pineapple, as well as more domestic varieties.
      She pulled two paring knives from the utensils drawer and turned back to Terry.
"Well," she said. "Don't just stand there, chief. Get peeling."
      He muttered something under his breath about "No damn fruit bar," but stood beside her and sliced and peeled with no small amount of skill.
      "If you hadn't run Lisa off," Paige said, "she'd be done with this already."
"Humph," the chief replied.
      When they had finished, Paige poured two more cups and they sat at the table with Maxxy.
"So," Terry said, "Are you gonna tell me what's this is all about?" "Chief, to do so would to be to put you in legal jeopardy. I'm sorry, I
can't tell you anything. All I can say is that people have died and I-" she corrected herself, "We can prevent that from happening again, if we move fast. The department's involvement would only hinder my investigation."
Terry was silent for a long while.
      "Burner, I've trusted you with a lot, for a long time. Even before I promoted you."
"And I appreciate it, chief."
"So I guess there's no reason to stop now."
"Thank you...Terry. I'll explain it all someday, if I can."
      "You'd better. Call P.J. and those, uh, Asians and tell them to get their asses back to work. I never ran their paperwork, so they'll even get paid for yesterday, I'll make sure of it."

      Paige pulled out her phone, and told P.J. to call the twins. He was immensely relieved.
      "Burner, I went on vacation to relax. The doctor says stress is killing me. But my office is too relaxing. Aromatherapy candles?"
"Just give it a chance, chief. Try it for a day or two."
      "I guess. But it just feels silly. Like I'm a funeral director who runs a Chinese buffet on the side."
Paige kissed him on the cheek. "We have to go," she said.
      Maxxy stood to leave, and began to clean the table. Paige slapped her hand. "I'll get that, mommy," she said.
      They walked Terry back to his office and opened his door. He shook his head, but stepped inside and turned to face them.
      "John and Lisa will teach you the new systems. It's way more efficient than the manila folders we used to get by with."
"Yeah, but-" the chief started.
"I know. You can feel paper. It talks to you." The chief eyed her skeptically.
      "Ok, maybe it's just me. But I think you'll find this makes your job much easier. More relaxing, even. I put some fun stuff on there for you, too. You won't get bored."
"When will you be back, Burner?" "I don't know, chief."
      "I can put you on paid administrative leave for two weeks. After that, you're on your own."
      "Wow, thanks a lot. I should be back by then. If not, paycheck won't seem very important, soon."
"It's serious, eh?" "Very."
"Then carry your ass, Burner. Go save the world."

Chapter 41 - Borne In East L.A.
      Jean woke up that morning and ate his last Adipex. He decided he needed some more speed. He couldn't let his guard down for a minute now, and he felt like he shouldn't sleep again until after the virus was released.
      He was still disturbed by the dreams he had a few hours earlier. For one thing, the redhead was in his dreams. Under the circumstances, it was understandable, he supposed. Then again, she was dreamy. She belonged in his dreams regardless.
      She was holding a baby. And there was an explosion. Then everything turned red. It was confusing to Jean, and frustrating. If there was meaning there, he couldn't divine it.
      He considered calling Pookie, but he was family, and somehow he didn't think he would approve of his niece's fianc�e buying methamphetamine from him.
      It was so early even the crack dealers were still sleeping. He took the opportunity to learn some new words in Spanish online: "coca", "grama", "comprar" and others that might be useful.
      The first two early bird dealers he talked to said "No la tengo" and "No se" respectively, meaning "I don't have it" and "I don't understand".
      Jean consulted his Spanish-English dictionaries online, but he wasn't sure that the word they used for 'crack' and rock cocaine were the same. There was only one way to find out, he thought. There certainly was no shortage of dealers milling about the Cheapo Sleepo motel.
      The next one he asked said, "Oh, si" and cheerfully placed a cube of crack the size of a die in his hand. What could he do but pay the man, at that point?
      He had wanted powder, but apparently this wasn't a powder sort of neighborhood. Not being one to waste drugs, Jean dutifully chopped the cube up and threw it into a cone.
      It seemed to burn forever. When he was about three quarters of the way through, Jean looked around, startled by a train whistle, or so he thought. It was his ears ringing. Jean felt the snakes squirm in his brain and was reduced to his base reptilian responses: fight or flight. Neither option applied.
      Instead, he pulled his battered and dog-eared copy of 'The Stand' out of his overnight bag. To Jean's dismay, his eyes danced all over the

page. The book he had treasured and based his life on for some twenty-five years was currently unreadable.
      Twenty minutes later, the buzzing in his head had subsided, and he was left with a throbbing headache. He knew the hair of the dog would only help for another twenty minutes. Besides, any drug you couldn't read on was useless to him.
Instead he slept again.
###
      Paige was dressed to play the role of reporter or investigator. Maxine was dressed to entice Paige, in a plaid skirt, penny loafers with a lace-fringed knee-high socks, and a sheer white, long-sleeved shirt that didn't fully cover her belly.
      Paige was too involved in the upcoming manhunt to do more than appreciate her beauty and occasionally run her hand up and down Maxxy's bare thigh absentmindedly.
      They started by covering the basics. Paige went into D-Generation's offices and inquired as to Jean's whereabouts under the guise of wanting to schedule an interview.
      The best the receptionist could offer was to give Jean a message when he returned to work the following Monday. Or, she said, Paige could leave him a voicemail message.
      When she got back in the car, she said, "He really took the week off of work. All I can get is his voicemail or public email address."
      "Let's go to his apartment, then," Maxine said. She dug in her purse and retrieved an envelope from Jean. It was about a twenty-minute drive, under ideal conditions.
"Allah hu ackbar!" Maxxy said, igniting the morning Bin Laden.
They made terrible time in traffic, but neither of them cared.
      Jean's car wasn't at the apartments, to their disappointment. Paige drove them to a Wal-Mart they had passed on the way in.
"Let's go, mommy," she told Maxine. "Why?" Maxxy asked, feeling dazed. "Panty shopping," Paige told her. "Yum."
      Once they were inside, however, Paige pushed the cart, Maxxy on her arm, to the bakery area.
"Munchies already?" Maxine asked her.

      "Pick a cake for Jean," Paige replied. Maxine eyed them all and said, "That one," tapping on the glass. "Who doesn't love the Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers?"
"Uhhh," Paige said, trying to be polite.
      Paige called the counterperson over and had her decorate it to read, "Happy Birthday Jean!" Then she led Maxine to the stationary center, and they grabbed several packs of streamers, a banner, and balloons.
"An idea is forming," Maxxy said "Go get a late pass," Paige said.
They returned to Jean's apartment complex and went to the front

office.


"How's your acting?" Paige asked Maxxy.
"What are you doing, mister?" Maxxy replied, sounding ten years

younger.
      "Nice," Paige said. "It's Jean's birthday. We just want to decorate his apartment for a surprise party. And we won't take no for an answer."
At the rental office, they met assistant manager Matt. "Hi, Matt. I'm Maxine, resident Jean Simon's girlfriend." "And I'm his girlfriend's girlfriend," Paige said.
"It's Jeaner's birthday today," Maxxy continued. "And we want to surprise him," Paige added.
      "We got him a cake," Maxine said, holding up the cake so Matt could see Jean's name written on it.
"And balloons," Paige said.
"But I couldn't ask him for the key," Maxxy said. "That would spoil the surprise," Paige chimed in.
"Is there any way you can let us in to decorate, please?" "Pretty please?" said Paige.
"Now, ladies. You know I can't do any such thing. I could lose my
job."
"Pleeeease?" Paige intoned. She handed Matt her driver's license,
and motioned for Maxine to do the same. "What's this for?" he asked.
"So you can see we're legit. Go make copies of them."
      Matt considered her request, then shook his head and handed the licenses back.

      "I'm afraid it just can't be done. It's a breech of trust, and a violation of the tenant-lessor relationship."
Maxine whispered in Paige's ear.
"You could watch us make out, Matt," she said.
"Gulp," Matt said. "I guess I can let you in to decorate for an hour.
Would that be enough time?"
"That'd be just perfect, Matt."
      He retrieved a key from a box in the back office, and drove them there in a four-person golf cart. He even carried in the cake for them.
"Ok, ladies. Please remember my job is at stake. Are you sure Mr.
Simons won't be upset?"
"At us, Matt? Perish the thought. I mean, look at us."
"Don't worry, Matt. Your secret's safe with us," Maxine said.
      "One more thing, Matt" Paige said, pulling Maxxy close. "A promise is a promise."
She pulled Maxine's head back by the hair and began kissing her.
Maxxy groaned in hunger and delight.
      Paige kissed her hard for a long while, squeezing and smashing Maxxy's tits in the process. By the time they remembered Matt was watching them, three minutes had elapsed.
Matt was rubbing his cock through his pants. "Matt!" Paige said in mock surprise.
"Can I-" he began to ask.
"No, Matt. The deal was to watch us kiss. You run along, now." "I'll be back in an hour to lock up," he said rather listlessly.
When he had gone, Maxine slapped Paige lightly across the face. "Girl," she said, "Don't get me hot like that if you can't come
through."
"Who said I can't come through?" Paige asked. "We have work to do."
Paige dug around in Jean's desk until she found a roll of scotch tape. "What's that for?"
      "The decoration, silly. If Matt comes back and we didn't decorate, he'll be suspicious."
      They quickly slapped the banner and streamers on the walls. Maxine made a token effort to blow up balloons, but stopped after five.

      "Look around carefully. Paperwork, printouts. Clues. I'm gonna dig around on his computer and see what's there."
      But when Paige turned on the PC, she got an error message: "Operating System not found."
"Fuck me," she said.
"What's wrong?" Maxxy asked.
"I think he wiped it out. Erased everything." "Suspicious behavior, for sure."
      "Yeah, but we want to know where he is and what he's up to. If he made plans to go back to work on Monday, he's almost definitely going to do something before then. Tomorrow's Friday," Paige said.
"The thirteenth." Maxxy added.
"Shit! I need my PC forensics gear." Paige got up to go. "You know, I'm not crippled, Paige."
"I know, Maxine."
"You never let me lift a finger."
      "You can lift a finger later, I promise." She kissed Maxine on the cheek. "Three or four of them."
      Paige returned with her laptop and a CD carrying case full of software and tools. She thumbed through them twice muttering to herself until she found what she was looking for.
"What's that?" Maxxy asked.
      "Well, when you quick format a hard drive, the computer just erases the directory information. The data is still there."
      When she put the disc in the drive and rebooted, she got the same error message.
      "Damnit, Jean," she said. "He turned off the boot from disc option in the BIOS."
      Paige rebooted the machine a second time. She hit 'F8" to enter the BIOS, and was asked for a password.
"Aargh!" she yelled.
      Paige shut the machine off, disconnected all of the wires running to it, and them opened the case.
      She pulled a small flashlight from the CD case. After some digging, Paige said, "I got it."
"Got what?" Maxine asked.

      "The model number of the motherboard. There's a jumper on them that erases the BIOS password and resets everything to default."
"Computers suck." "I know."
      After a few minutes of Googling and reading, Paige knew which one to pull. She shut the machine down, pulled the jumper, turned it back on, let it boot, shut it off again and finally, replaced the jumper and turned the machine back on.
"Really suck," Maxxy said in response to this process. "I know," Paige said again.
This time the machine booted into the menu of Paige's tools disc. "Phew," she said. "Finally."
      She began to dig through the most likely locations of stored text files: the desktop, documents folder. Finally, she went back to the root of the directory and saw what she had missed initially, an innocuous folder named 'Jean'.
      His hierarchical mind led to a seemingly endless taxonomy of files. 'Business' and 'Personal' were the initial categories. Several directories deep within the 'Personal' folder, she found one that struck her as extremely interesting.
      It was a folder named 'Messiah'. That's odd, she thought. Within it was everything related to Jean's virus work. The first two files that caught her attention were labeled 'Manson' and 'Letter to the editor'.
"Bingo," she told Maxine.
She read the letter aloud for Maxine. "Wow," Maxxy said. "He's crazy."
      "Is he?" Paige asked. "I see the work of psychopaths every day. It's frightening what people, men primarily, are capable of doing. Those are almost all poor, street-level, psychopaths. I can only imagine what rich and well-educated ones are capable of doing."
"So what do you think it means?"
      "If I had to guess as to who would be most affected by the virus he's describing I'd say it's going to kill world leaders, captains of industry, a large portion of the police and military and a lot of criminals."
"So what's the downside?" Maxxy asked, laughing.
      "I know, right?" Paige agreed. "I can't believe we're laughing about the death of millions."

"Meh," Maxine said, and they erupted again.
Paige got out a screwdriver set and began dismantling the computer. "What are you doing?" Maxine asked her.
      "Destroying the evidence. It was very sloppy of him to just wipe the hard drive. And if I just take the hard drive, there will be a lot of unanswered questions. No computer, no evidence."
      "Wow. You're really serious about keeping him out of jail, aren't you? I'm actually a little jealous."
"Wanna spank me?' Paige asked. "You know I do," Maxine said.
Just then, Maxine groaned and held her stomach.
"Are you ok?" Paige asked with some concern in her voice.
      "Yeah, I think these are Braxton-Hicks contractions, or false labor. When I think about sex I have contractions. I'm fine. Oh!" Maxxy said. "I have an idea. Maybe Uncle Pookie knows where Jean is!"
She pulled out her phone and dropped it to the carpet, doubled over

in pain.


"Maxxy? Shouldn't we get you to the hospital?"
"My ob-gyn said this is normal. It's when contractions keep coming,

one after another, close together, that you need to go to the hospital. As long as I can talk through them I'm fine."
"What hospital are you with?"
      "Girl, this is South Central. You just go to any hospital. The county will pay for everything."
"Okay, if you're sure you're okay. Let's call your uncle." "Yeah, Uncle Pook knows all, sees all."
      When Maxxy tried to look up his number, she was hit with another contraction, this one much worse than the previous few.
Finally, they subsided long enough for her to call him and speak to

him.


"Maxine, how's my girl?"
"Fine, Uncle Pook. Well, ok, anyway. Listen, I'm in town-" "No shit? Why ain't you come see me then?"
"I just got in. I'm looking for Jean, and I can't find him." Pookie was silent for a long time.
"I know where he is. But he's hiding. Don't bring any heat on him,

ya heard?"

Maxine's water broke.
"Uncle Pook, I'll call you back," Maxine said, and hung up. "Oh my god, oh shit, oh fuck," Paige said, "What do I do?"
      Just then Matt walked in. "Hey ladies," he called out before he saw them. But when he opened the door fully, he saw Jean's disassembled PC, Paige on her knees, and Maxine standing in a puddle of water, her crotch soiled.
"What the hell?" he said. "Matt, she's having a baby." "What?"
"She needs to go to the hospital." "What?"
"Now, Matt."
Paige held Maxine's hand.
"Maxxy, Matt's gonna take you to the hospital, ok?" "What?" he said again.
"Then I'll go get Jeaner and bring him there." Maxine was sobbing.
"Ok," she said quietly. "I can't-" Matt began.
Paige turned to him with steely eyes.
"You appear to be in a situation, Matt. Play ball and you'll do fine.
What's the nearest hospital?" "Uh," Matt said.
"Matt!" Paige yelled. "Snap out of it. It's go time." "Creswell. It's just around the corner."
"Take her to the emergency room, Matt." He hesitated.
"Now!"
Paige stacked the disassembled PC components in the case. "What are you-"
"PC repair, Matt. Just stay focused."
      Paige scribbled her name and phone number on a Post-It note from Jean's desk.
      "Give me as her emergency contact person, and call me when you get there. Can you do that, Matt?"
"Uh," he said.



cart.

"You have no choice. Get moving"
Paige put her arm around Maxine and began walking her to the golf

"It's gonna be ok, Maxxy. I'll get Jean, and then you'll have your

baby. Ok?"
Maxxy could only nod weakly. "Where does your uncle live?"
"Six oh five Greenleaf," Maxine managed.
      Paige sat Maxxy in the cart's front seat, and noticed Matt was nowhere to be found.
She went back inside to find him frozen in place.
Paige grabbed the PC and brought it with her to her car. "Come on, Matt. Lock the door."
      Numbly, he shuffled out the door behind her, closing it behind him but not locking it.
She put the computer in her trunk. "What are you going to do, Matt?' He tried to think.
"Uh, hospital." "Good, what else?" "Call you."
"Ok, and?"
"Give the hospital your number."
      "Good, Matt. Do those things and I promise you won't get into any trouble, ok?"
"Ok."
"Now go," Paige said.
She walked around and kissed a shivering Maxine on the cheek. "You'll be ok, mommy. I'll see you soon."
"I'm scared," Maxine said. "Don't be. I'll be right there." Maxine squeezed her hand. "I love you," she said.
"I love you, Maxxy"
      And with that, Paige got in her car and began to drive off. She slowed down before the corner and looked in her rearview mirror to see Matt pulling out of his parking space.

Good luck, Maxxy, she thought.
      Paige put Pookie's address into her GPS, and wondered why she didn't get his number instead. It was partly because she didn't think he would help her out over the phone, she decided.
      The route took her deep into South Central. She resisted the impulse to lock her doors. She parked on the street a few houses down from his and knocked on his door.
He opened it abruptly.
"Hi, Mr. Pookie. I'm a friend of Maxine's. Can I come in?" "You're a cop," he said.
"I'm n-" Paige started to say.
"Don't bullshit a bullshitter. I can smell a cop." Paige sighed, defeated.
"Yes, I am," she said.
Pookie began to shut the door, and Paige shoved her foot in to block

it open.


"Maxine's having a baby. Right now."
"What the fuck?" He opened the door. "Speak," he told her. "She's having Jean's baby today. You need to call her parents." "Parents? She has a grandma. Where is she?"
"I need to know where Jean is, first." "Motherfucker," he said. "I aint no snitch."
"I'm his friend. I'm Maxxy's friend. I'm trying to make sure he

doesn't get busted. Ok?"
"Why should I believe you?"
      "Because, Pookie, if I wanted to, I'd arrest you right now for obstruction. That'd be a parole violation. You'd serve the remainder of your sentence."
"Damn."
"But I wouldn't do that to you. We're fam." "What?" he questioned.
      "Maxine and I are close. Don't sweat Jean. She's at Creswell Hospital."
Pookie let out a deep breath.
"He's at the Siesta Barato in East L.A."
      "Thanks. Call Maxine if you want. If she's conscious, she can put your mind at ease."

"I believe you. It's just, shit-" "What?"
      "I'm on house arrest. I want to go be with her. But I ain't about goin' back to jail."
      "I don't know what to do. I could get you an exception, but that takes time. Just call her and tell her I'm bringing Jean, ok? And her grandmother."
"Aight. I'll figure something out." "Thanks, uh, Uncle Pook." "Peace."
      Paige Googled as she drove. She knew better, but this constituted an emergency if ever there was one.
      She entered the address into the phone's GPS, and then called Maxine. It wasn't Maxxy that answered.
"Hello?"
"May I speak to Maxine?"
      "I'm sorry, she's in the delivery room. She's at the-" a nurse started to reply.
"I know where she is. Has anyone else called?" "Yes, she talked to her uncle."
"Thanks."
      Paige hung up, frustrated. She was going into this situation alone, and was little intimidated. What approach could she possibly use on Jean? Maxine was going to be her secret weapon.

Chapter 42 - Showdown
Jean was awakened by a knock at the door less than an hour later.
He sat up in a flash, unsure of where he was.
      When he did realize he was in East L.A. his mounting tension ratcheted up another notch. He put some clothes on, put the vial in his pocket, and pulled the loaded gun from the case.
"Who is it?" he asked, trying to sound normal. "Jean, it's Paige. I need to talk to you about Maxxy."
      He was stunned. How had the police tracked him down? And why no warning from Ayahuasca?
      "Do you expect me to believe that?" Jean yelled. "I know why you're here."
"Jean, Maxine's in town. She's at the hospital having your baby." "Nice try, cop. Maxxy's not pregnant."
      "She was scared to tell you. You can call Creswell Hospital and see for yourself. I'll wait."
      Two minutes later, the door opened, and Paige found herself inside with a gun pointed at her midsection.
      "I wish I could say it was nice to see you again," Jean said. "But under the circumstances..."
"I know what you mean," Paige replied.
      "So you used LAPD resources to track me down for a baby shower?" Jean sneered.
      "LAPD doesn't know I'm here," Paige said, instantly regretting the admission. "I'm here because I'm worried about you."
He eyed her with continued skepticism.
      "I know everything," she said. "Just end it now, Jean. If no one else gets hurt, you're safe."
      He considered this, and then said, "I am not bringing a child into a psychopathic society."
"So, you're not backing down?"
Paige was considering how to disarm him as she spoke.
      "I can't!" he said. "I'm..." he was going to say "The Messiah," and now that suddenly sounded foolish to him. "I'm committed. I can't give up now."
      "Jean, listen to me. Maxxy loves you. You're a father. If you go through with this, you might only see them through prison bars."

      He kept her covered while he gathered his wallet, keys, and phone from the nightstand.
"Give me your gun," he said.
She sighed and pulled it from the small of her back. "Here," she said, handing it over handle first.
"Any more?" he asked. She shook her head. "Turn around," he said.
      He ran both hands over her body, and she wondered where his gun was while he did so. He started at the shoulders and worked his way down, squeezing her breasts, feeling her stomach and back, passing a hand over her pussy, and even squeezing and spreading her ass.
She got the feeling he was enjoying it, and oddly enough, so was

she.


"Ok," he finally said. "You're clean." "Then why do I feel so dirty?" she asked.
He scanned the room once more to see if he'd forgotten anything. "Let's go," he told her, and motioned toward the door with his gun. "Where are we going?"
"LAX."
"And what's going to happen to me?" Silence.

###
"Push, Maxine," the nurse told her. "Bitch, I am pushin'."
      Maxine was in agony, and she was totally alone. Pookie told her that her grandmother was coming but she hadn't arrived yet. He said he wanted to see her, but she told him not to worry about it.
Maxxy told her Uncle Pookie what was going down with Jean and
Paige.
"I gotta go, Maxxy," Pookie said. "Have that baby for me, ya
heard?"
      "Ok," she said. As soon as he hung up, Maxine fell asleep until the next round of contractions woke her up again.
      Now it was happening, the baby was coming. Through the haze of pain and drugs, she wondered if she should have opted for the caesarian birth.

      "Jean motherfuckin' Simons, Imma kill you!" she screamed as the worst pain yet wracked her body. The intimidated nurse left the room.
###
Let's take my car," Paige said as they started out the door. "Why?"
"Because your computer is in my trunk." "What?"
      "You left evidence behind. It needs to be disposed of, hard drive destroyed."
"I wiped it."
"You know better than that."
      As they walked to her car, Paige looked at their reflections in the windows of the cars they passed. When the best opportunity presented itself, she spun around and knocked the loosely held gun from Jean's hand and ran.
      Instead of giving chase, he pulled her pink gun from his waistband and took aim.
###
      "Nnyaaaaah!" Maxine gave one final heroic push, and her son was born into the world. After his nose and throat were cleared, and he was somewhat cleaned up, and administered the Apgar test, the nurses swaddled him and brought him to Maxine.
      "Oh, Jean," she said upon seeing the beautiful baby boy. "Where are you?" And where is Paige for that matter, she thought.
      Just then, her grandmother walked into the room wearing disposable paper scrubs. Maxine smiled at her, proud of her first child. The woman walked over to the side of the bed, looked at the child and sniffed, "He's white." Then she turned and left the room. Maxine never bothered to look her up again.
###
      There was a loud report and Paige braced for impact, then realized her gun wouldn't fire, anyway. Instead, Jean crumpled to the ground, a gaping hole blown in his shoulder. She rushed over to where he lay. Paige shook his other shoulder and he winced in pain, his eyelids fluttered and opened.
"Is it..." he said, "A boy or a girl?"
"We don't know, Jeaner. You'll have to see for yourself."

      "Vial. In my pocket. Boil it for twenty minutes. Virus dead. I'd rather be a dad than Messiah."
His eyes closed. Pookie walked up.
      "Uncle Pook!" Paige exclaimed. And then "Oh," as she realized who had shot Jean.
"Had to do it, chick," he said. "You're fam."
Paige was dialing 911. "Isn't he family, too?" she asked him. "Who? That? Until he marries my niece, he's just a baby daddy." "How did you get out?"
      He showed her his leg. "Let's just say if anyone shows up to check on me, they'll find a very pissed off pitbull wearing an ankle bracelet."
      He paused. "But I gotta go. I done killed some fool. Again. Maxxy told me where you were going. I knew it was dangerous. But she said you were a down-ass chick. So I had to check on you."
      Paige looked up to thank him, but his back was to her as he faded into the gathering crowd and disappeared.
      "Hang on, Jeaner," she said, attempting to cradle him to her body. Her tears fell upon his blood-spattered face, giving him bloody tears of his own.
"Tell Maxxy I love her," he croaked.
She stroked his hair. "I will, Jeaner. I will."
      The police arrived ahead of the ambulance and Paige remembered the vial at the last possible second, stuffing it into her purse.
      The paramedics attempted to stabilize him, then put him on a gurney that they loaded onto the meatwagon.
      "We're taking him to Creswell, one of the paramedics told her. "It's about sixteen minutes away."
"I know," she said.
      The uniformed officers attempted to question her until she produced her credentials. She explained that it was a random shooting.
      "And what were you two doing at a motel in East L.A.?" one of the officers asked.
Paige rolled her eyes at him.
      Satisfied, they took her information and said she was free to go. She arrived at the hospital less than ten minutes after Jean did.
At the front desk, she inquired as to his status.

"And what is your relationship to the patient?" the nurse asked.
      "I'm his wife," she said, knowing only relatives would be allowed into the emergency room. She liked the way it sounded. It came out of her mouth naturally and easily. It felt right.
      When she got upstairs, and was scrubbed and dressed to enter the room, a young doctor approached her, Dr. Robbins.
      "It's going to be ok," he told her, and she nearly collapsed with relief. "He stabilizing. He lost a lot of blood. What was he shot with, a cannon?"
      "Double-action .380 with a hollow point bullet," Paige said absentmindedly, "from a distance of twenty yards. Does that help?"
      "Possibly. It's impressive, either way. You must be Maxxy, he kept calling for you until we sedated him. He must love you a lot."
      Paige felt shooting pains in her heart, great stabs of ugly jealousy. She felt embarrassed and ashamed at herself. Maxxy had his heart, and she wouldn't begrudge her that.
Not to mention, she had his child.
      They allowed her in to see him, but he was unconscious. She held his hand tightly, loving the way his hand was so much bigger than hers. But it felt cold.
Too much like death, to her. She let herself out to check on Maxine. "Oh" the nurse at the desk said, "you have two relatives here?" "She's my sister-in-law," Paige told her. It sounded plausible.
      "She's in room two nineteen, one floor down, turn left out of the elevator."
"Thanks."
      Maxine was breastfeeding already when Paige walked in. Again, she felt incredibly jealous, her salted eyes burning in her face like two embers. She was jealous of the baby at her breast, both because she felt she belonged there, and because she wanted a baby of her own to care for.
      This is not healthy, she thought, and shook away her negative emotions as best she could.
      "Hey, you!" Maxine said upon noticing her presence. Her smile was infectious, and soon it was on Paige's face as well.
      "You have the most beautiful smile," Paige told her. "And he's gorgeous. Lucky baby."

      "There's still room for you, silly," Maxine said. And then realization dawned on her face. "Where's Jean? Did you find him?"
"I love you, Maxxy. He's here." "Where?"
"Do you love me?" "Where is he?"
"He's been shot." Paige finally said.
      Maxine's voice began slowly and got louder and louder. "You motherfucking white trash piece of shit bitch! You said he wouldn't get hurt, and then you shoot him? I'm gonna kill you, how about that?"
      The baby began crying, and alarms sounded as Maxxy began to yank wires and tubes from her body, actions which brought the nurses running.
      One grabbed the baby as another attempted to restrain Maxine. Luckily, she was too drugged and in too much pain to give more than a token effort at getting out of bed.
"Get out!" she screamed. "Get out!"
With great sadness, Paige turned away and walked out the door.
      In the hall the charge nurse said to Paige, "We're very sorry. Would you like to press charges?"
"What?' Paige said. "No way."
      She went walking around the hospital grounds, soul searching. Her heart was heavy and her body ached. She was alone and forlorn. Nothing in the universe would ever be right for her again.
The more she thought about Jean and Maxxy, the angrier she got.
Angry with them, sure, but angry with herself more so.
      How had she been so na�ve? True love was not for her. And without that, there seemed nothing else worth living for. She didn't believe in suicide, but if she had, now would be the time.
      She sat down with her back to a tree overlooking a duck pond. On a whim, she began to read about ponerology and psychopathy on her phone, as Jean had once suggested.
Pepper's seemed like a million years ago.
      The more she read, the more she realized he was right. These people were probably the biggest threat to mankind's continued existence. And to think, she had the solution in her possession.

Chapter 43 - Happy Unending
      In the operating room, Jean's blood pressure was still dangerously low. The doctors had succeeded in patching his exterior, but had evidently missed something in his shoulder, as he was still hemorrhaging internally.
The doctor's consulted their superiors and the decision was clear. "Open him up."
      For two more hours they infused Jean with fresh blood as they did exploratory surgery in an attempt to stop his blood loss.
      They opened the wound to three times its initial size. Finally, they found the problem. A bullet had chipped his clavicle and resultant shrapnel clipped an artery.
      All told, Jean was in surgery for five hours. When they had finished with him, he was alive, barely. He was wheeled to the critical care wing and the next day he was still unconscious.
###
      With Jean in surgery, Paige had little to do but wait around and be depressed. She decided to go home and get some clothes.
      She would smoke, too, of course, but even that held little appeal for her. Already, smoking was now something that made her think of Maxxy.
      On the freeway, Paige's mood was most black indeed. With nothing to lose, she opened the vial of Captain Trips and slowly poured it out of the window as she drove.
      The solution atomized and misted in the breeze. It coated cars, and was drawn into the air intakes of air conditioners. It got on birds and insects, and at least one dog, she suspected.
      Thy will be done, she thought. She turned on the radio, and the classic rock station seemed to vindicated her actions.
      "Well, I ain't no, new messiah, but I'm good enough for rock and roll." .38 Special? Kansas? She was no longer sure, but it was comforting when the universe let you know you were on the right track.
      At home, she threw the empty vial into a dumpster, but she didn't bother to shower. Thus Paige was still infectious when she went back to the hospital later that night.
      Having been rejected by Maxine, Paige slept in Jean's room. The next morning she drank coffee and turned on the TV, as was her morning habit.

      "Reports are coming in from California about a new virus raging up and down the coast, from San Diego to Humboldt County, and as far inland as East L.A. Three deaths are confirmed, and as many as one hundred thousand are ill with this new contagion."
Paige turned off the TV, numb with shock. Had she really done that?
She knew whatever was coming, it was only the beginning.
She moved over to the chair she had set up next to Jean and held his
hand.
"Guess what, Jean?" she said. "We did it." She kissed him on the
cheek, but he didn't stir.
      The nurses encouraged her to touch him and talk to him on the basis that it was likely to bring him out of his coma-like state sooner.
      It was a day she spent in glorious solitude, wallowing in melancholy sentimentality. She curled up with a blanket and sometimes flipped channels, but mostly she stared out of the window, or watched Jean sleep.
      The virus ravaged the west coast, and took off for all points beyond. Paige watched with interest as it began to travel the globe. And the death toll was mounting. More than three hundred dead in California alone, and that was in less than twenty-four hours.
      By ten p.m. that night, Californians recognized it for what it was: Captain Trips. The name began to appear on the local broadcasts, and first made the national news on the morning of Saturday the fourteenth.
      And still Jean slept. Dreaming, Paige hoped, in his comatose state. The nurses and occasional doctor all agreed that there was nothing they could do. It was just a matter of time, but he would wake up again, they assured her.
      By Sunday it was apparent that there would be no great body count. Still, fourteen thousand dead internationally was nothing to sneeze at. And Captain Trips raged on.
      But there was something more going on beneath the surface. Some people who became ill from the virus were transformed by it, in a manner similar to religious conversion.
      Some attributed it to God, but others correctly claimed that the virus itself had made them better people. CEOs, statesman and others began to testify on television that they could no longer steal, or kill, or whatever their previous negative behaviors had been.

      It was as if a large portion of the world was born again, or had converted to Buddhism. Paige knew what had happened. The virus had cured them of their psychopathy.
###
      Maxine was up and around, so she made her way to see Jean. She walked in with her son, and upon seeing Paige, emitted a soft "Oh" in surprise.
      Her eyes were already red and wet. When Paige turned from the window to meet her gaze, tears once more began to fall. Quickly, Paige got up to hold the baby, whom Maxine handed over without question so she could embrace Jean, who remained in shock.
Maxxy lay across Jean's chest for more than ten minutes before she

spoke.


"I talked to Pookie," she said. "I'm sorry."
"He's beautiful," Paige said. "He looks like his daddy. What's his

name?"
      Maxine got up and walked to the foot of the bed to address Paige face to face.
"Whitfield Drama Simons," she said. "Is Whitfield a family name?"
      "No, Whitfield Diffie was a famous hacker Jean and I both admire. And when you consider how he was born, Drama is definitely his middle name."
Both of them smiled at this. "What are you going to do?" "Wait for Jean to wake up." "No, after that."
"Well, it's funny. I've been thinking about a ranch, of all things." "Where?"
"Colorado," Maxine said, and they both giggled.
###
      By the time Captain Trips had completed its circumnavigation, nearly twenty thousand were dead, with Russia and Europe being hit particularly hard. There was no way to gauge how many people's lives were altered by being infected, but it was as though a worldwide revolution was in progress.
###

"I love you, Maxine Jackson," Paige said. "I love you, Paige Burner," Maxine replied.
Paige leaned over the baby and kissed Maxxy's soft, full lips. Just then, Jean's eyes opened and he awakened with a start.
      The smiling faces of Maxine and Paige both turned to him, looking not unlike angels. Without missing a beat, Paige said to Jean, "Hey, you. Welcome to paradise..."
      
The End




