

Table of Contents
Chapter 1 - Mommy Dearest 
Chapter 2 - Life in the Fast Lane 
Chapter 3 - The Love Boat 
Chapter 4 - Osaka Harbor 
Chapter 5 - Hazel Minx
Chapter 6 - Pimpin' Ain't Easy 
Chapter 7 - The Game
Chapter 8 - Production Value 
Chapter 9 - Plain White Panties 
Chapter 10 - Smell the Set-Up 
Chapter 11 - The Replica, Revisited
Chapter 12 - Slouching Toward Bethlehem 
Chapter 13 - Wardrobe and Script
Chapter 14 - Action
Chapter 15 - Cherry Blossoms 
Chapter 16 - Pageburner 
Chapter 17 - Dinner is Served 
Chapter 18 - Hello Yuki 
Chapter 19 - Gangsta Shit 
Chapter 20 - Isle of Lucy 
Chapter 21 - Pink Ninjas
Chapter 22 - Labyrinth's Animator 
Chapter 23 - Gojira's Revenge 
Chapter 24 - Masterpiece
Chapter 25 - Janique the Green-Eyed Monster 
Chapter 26 - Training Session
Chapter 27 - Dusted
Chapter 28 - Another Pet Shop of Horrors 
Chapter 29 - Roy G. Biv
Chapter 30 - Easy Money 
Chapter 31 - The Dress 
Chapter 32 - The Ceremony 
Chapter 33 - Special Delivery 
Chapter 34 - Be Very Afraid 
Chapter 35 - Pet
Chapter 36 - Ultrawoman
Chapter 37 - Willy Wonka Returns 
Chapter 38 - The Better to Eat You With 
Chapter 39 - The Dance
Chapter 40 - Ultimate Demo
Chapter 41 - Battle Royale with Cheese 
Chapter 42 - Reptile Love
Chapter 43 - Aftermath
Chapter 44 - Attacking the Streets of Tokyo 
Chapter 45 - Final Curtain

Penultimate Hustle: Japan (Ultimate Hustle Volume II) By Jason Z. Christie
Copyright 2012 Jason Z. Christie
ISBN-10: 1481052314
ISBN-13: 978-1481052313

Chapter 1 - Mommy Dearest
   Janique Turner was the best cocksucker in the business. And she was late. For daycare.
   "I don't care if she has a flight in six hours, Rai, tell her her pussy isn't made of gold," she said into her phone.
   Her assistant repeated the line back in Japanese so she could fully assess the impact it would have on her recalcitrant co-star, but Janique had already regretted her utterance.
   "I'm sorry, Rai. Please tell Sushi-San that a set of unfortunate, changing circumstances dictate that I ask to delay shooting for another hour. Tell her she will receive an additional day's pay and per diem, as well as dinner and accommodations if she deigns to grace this country with her presence for another day. If not, she can start walking to the airport."
Rai said nothing, but emitted a soft sigh. "Okay, strike the last sentence."
   Janique hung up abruptly, as was her practice. She had no time for goodbyes.
   "Hey, little man," she called out to the figure sleeping in the car seat beside her. "We're almost at school."
   Much like his mother, young Johnny Turner was not a morning person. Janique felt mornings were for having sex and going back to sleep. Johnny preferred to skip them entirely, sleeping 'till noon whenever he could. He was quite a handful at four years old. Instead of waking him, she passed her hand over his brow with motherly affection, never taking her eyes off the road.
   Behind her, San Fernando Valley commuters laid on their horns as they passed by. She maintained a steady fifty-five miles an hour when her son was in the car.
   Regis Academy was the most expensive and pretentious preschool in Beverly Hills. That was not to say it was the best in the area, but neither Chris nor Janique felt a child barely older than a toddler should be forced to do schoolwork. Instead, she had enrolled him there because she liked tweaking the noses of the parents and staff. She had more money than the rest of them put together, and she never let them forget where it came from: their husbands and boyfriends.
   She pulled into her private parking spot next to the headmaster's. Janique would have had his space except he had tendered his resignation

when informed that he would have to take the second-best slot. Eventually, she relented and let him keep his position. It still made her grin to think that she owned the school and no one knew it.
   She walked around and opened the passenger side door, clutching her precious cargo to her not inconsiderable chest. At the entrance, the staff greeted her in whispers as they opened the door and whisked him away to a classroom where he could sleep until he felt like waking. Janique made it a point to talk to his teacher whenever she could, but there was no way, today. Ultimate Hustle had a burn rate of ten thousand dollars an hour, year-round. You didn't stay on top in this business by slacking and socializing.
   "Headmaster. How to Suck Seed in Business," she said into her voice recorder.


   Chris was getting ready to crash, having spent the previous night working, writing, and doing preproduction with a few frazzled members of the video production side of the business.
   Natalia was tall, slinky, and Italian, practically a stereotypical fashion designer, clad in a jet-black catsuit and beret, with a cigarette holder clenched in her teeth. In her time off, she chain-smoked. But, as a rule, Ultimate Hustle did not employ smokers. Natalia was the sole exception. Even Janique the employee, didn't smoke.
   As the owner, she answered to no one, however. Not even Chris, on this particular matter. There was a time when he said smoking cigarettes could be a deal breaker. That didn't last long. Still Janique managed to keep her dirty little secret a secret.
   Meanwhile, Natalia was desperately trying to get away for the night, so she could light her first Marlboro in twelve hours. But Chris had been up two days to their one, and still had energy to spare. He discussed their upcoming shoots with her all the way to her car. As she sped out of sight, smoke billowing, he consulted a few voicemail messages.
   Then he dialed Yuki, Japan's premiere adult film star, whom Janique had now kept waiting for twelve hours, entirely disrupting her normal sleep

cycle, a contractual item that cost an additional thousand dollars an hour. Luckily, they had a good working relationship with her, sleep clause issues aside, and so Chris spoke a few soothing words to her in Japanese, to which her only breathless reply had been "'Gato".
   Then he dialed Janique. Ordinarily they took an hour between shifts for what they called a quickie. Since she worked days and he usually worked nights, they had to make occasional concessions to both work and play. Sometimes they skipped work, but not today. They had to forego seeing each other that morning.
   "Johnny," he said, "I love you." She beamed at him through the phone. He could feel it, and said nothing for a while, but only smiled in return. "Listen, love, where are you?"
She smiled brightly. "Oh, I'm coming Chris."
   Her pants were off. Her thumb pressed down on her clit as her fingers assaulted her separately and in unison, as if possessed of a mind of their own. Her diction, cadence, and breathing gave no indication of this, but Chris was no dummy.
   "I don't see why you insist on trucking him clear over to Beverly Hills to a school where you know he does little more that eat, sleep, and play," he scolded her. "Why can't we use the babysitters?"
"Chris, you use the babysitters."
   "Janique, some of them have PhDs. We have registered nurses, educators."
   "They're sluts, Chris. And I'm pretty sure he'll figure that out eventually."
   He wanted to say something to the effect that he was still far too young to have those sort of thoughts and feelings, but they both knew full well of Chris's first encounter with a Playboy at the age of four. He had pressed his erect penis against the pages of the magazine. Still, they both knew there was nothing wrong with sluts.
   He felt his son deserved everything in life. Nevertheless, he knew when and where to draw the line, and how to pick his battles with Janique. Their only son was not something he was ever going to argue over.
"I agree," he said finally.



   Babysitters, Inc. was a franchise they had started early on in their ventures. They employed professionals who occasionally "babysat" in their off hours. The money was great, but Janique had started the business on the premise that many wouldn't be doing it merely for the money. The ruse was legally sound, and encapsulated the core of the American dream.
   On paper, it was an extremely high-end nanny and babysitter agency. Each of the sitters listed had very impressive resumes. All were CPR- certified, at a minimum. Each had teaching credentials and had to undergo extensive background checks. Every one of them had a picture. They were dressed demurely and conservatively, but each one was gorgeous. They babysat for five hundred dollars an hour. Chris and Janique retained one hundred and fifty an hour for themselves.
   It was quite lucrative, and the illusion was so effective that many times the girls complained about showing up and actually having to babysit for hours on end. Chris's solution was to increase the hourly rate. They had started out only charging three hundred dollars an hour. People were still willing to pay that for a babysitter.
   That's when Janique implemented the policy of having the girls arrive in braces and pigtails, dressed so provocatively as to remove all doubt. After that, no one would leave their children with them, and so they would collect their one-hour minimum fee and leave.
   Having test marketed the concept in Los Angeles, Janique was preparing to open twenty-three franchises around the country, each to be managed by her original core crew of L.A. girls. Many didn't want to relocate and leave the enclave they had carved for themselves out of the harsh San Fernando Valley. She made them offers they couldn't refuse. They weren't leaving Ultimate Hustle, she told them, just taking it to new places.



Chris continued to egg Janique on. "Furthermore, Yuri what's-her-name..." "Yuki," Janique corrected him.
   "Whatever. Anyway, the gist of it was along the lines of she was out of your league, and for her to have to wait for the likes of you was an affront to the grand creator. Something like that."
   Janique knew Chris's Japanese vocabulary wasn't that broad, but it sounded like something that bitch would say.
   The line went dead and she got on the freeway. She took the DeLorean up to a hundred and five before she had to back off slightly due to clogs of traffic. Right on cue, just her luck, she saw the red and blue lights of a motorcycle cop in her rearview mirror.
   Janique tried in vain to both pull over and put on her pants, but instead only managed to put her panties, a thong, on backwards. She parked behind a convenient row of columns in an underpass, opened her door and turned to face him, feet dangling over the asphalt.
"Can I see your license and registration please, ma'am?" "Can I see your cock?"

Chapter 2 - Life in the Fast Lane
   A cheer erupted across the control room. The scene was coming off better than they could have imagined. It looked real because it was real. Somehow, Janique had an arrangement with LAPD. If they could catch her, they could have her. But only on camera. Her vehicle was wired for sound and video, with multiple angles of shots. The pursuing officer even had a dash cam. This was the first test of the new set-up, and it was a huge success.
"We'll have to obscure the logos," an intern suggested.
   "No," Brad, the engineer said. "We're going to change the logos to fake ones. It's better, legally."
"It's also a lot more work."
"You can always work at McDonald's, I guess," Brad said. The intern scowled.
"Okay, what's the fake police department?" he asked. Brad handed over a DVD-Rom.
"Here. It's the Supertrooper logo. I got them from Broken Lizard." "Aren't you worried about the legal ramifications? They can sue us." "No, they gave me the logos. They think it's great."
   "Of course, they don't have to hand-edit a hundred thousand frames of film, either."
"Yeah, so what are you making, fifty cents a frame? As an intern?"
   Ultimate Hustle interns made a cool fifty grand a year, which was just considered living expenses by the owners.
   Janique threw open the door to studio twelve, and there stood Yuki, eyes downcast, already on the verge of sobbing. Early on, Janique had learned to appreciate the vast differences between Japanese and American porn actresses. For one thing, American women act (if you could call it that) as if they like it. Japanese women, on the other hand, act like they don't like it. She found that much more satisfying. Moreover, they seemed to bring a healthy sense of shame and disgrace that American women lacked.
   She strode across the room, stood before Yuki, and bowed slightly. The girl gave an exaggerated bow in response. Then Janique slapped her across the face with such force that her co-star fell to her knees. At the instant her hand contacted her, the studio lights killed, replaced with a strobe. The Lords of Acid song "Rough Sex" began playing, right at her favorite part.

What proceeded was a two-and-a-half hour scene, shot without breaks, that ended only when Yuki said, "King Kong! King Kong!"
   As the medical staff and counselors attended to her, Janique walked out of the studio naked and into the shower in her office. When she emerged, Janice, her receptionist, personal assistant, and office mommy, was waiting with a towel.
"Well?" Janique asked.
"Oh, she's fine," Janice said. Janique rolled her eyes.
"The scene turned out great. I mean, wow. I'm wet." "I know she's fine. I pay her to be fine."
Janice nodded.
"Besides, that was mostly acting. At least I think it was." "What was the King Kong thing at the end?" Janice asked.
   "Oh, that. I told her in the American version of King Kong vs. Godzilla, King Kong wins. It was her admitting defeat."
Janice raised an eyebrow and said nothing.
   "Anyway," Janique continued, "Call a driver for me. I'm going back to sleep."


The driver gently shook her awake. "We have arrived, madam," he said.
   She groggily thanked him and made her way through the front door to the upstairs master bedroom, where she expected to curl up next to an already sleeping Chris. But he wasn't there. Old habits die hard, I guess, she thought. Unlike her, he never fully became accustomed to the vast wealth.
   Janique took the elevator to the basement, which was hardly a basement at all. She punched a panel on a keypad and a wall opened to reveal a pink EZ-GO golf cart with ridiculous gold-plated rims on it. Chris's idea.
   His response to their fabulous empire was to waste millions. Among other things, he opened a series of joke businesses: Ever Read A Book?, his

bookstore, Brownie In Motion, a coffee house by Stanford, Build-A-Burger, his answer to McDonald's, and Buns-And-Roses, a combination coffee shop and florist. The trouble was, at least to him, each of them made money. He couldn't even waste it as fast as they made it. So eventually, he thought he'd quit trying. All four of his fake businesses looked to be potential franchises, furthermore.
   Janique hummed "Hotel California" to herself as she otherwise silently glided down the well-lit hallway. It was wide enough for two carts to comfortably pass each other, but since only she, Chris, and a few select contractors knew about it, that had yet to happen. Several Ultimate Hustle employees knew about the run connecting the office complex to the estate, of course. Janique had used a driver because she felt drained after her abuse session with Yuki. Now she found herself driving anyway.
   She parked her Penelope Pitstop golf cart and entered a single person elevator. It was just big enough for her and Chris to squeeze into together, and she pressed the only button there was. The elevator shot upward silently so fast that she got butterflies in her stomach. It had cost a lot more to have a high-speed model installed and modified, but Chris knew she loved amusement park rides and carnivals, and they rarely got away from work long enough to enjoy them.
   Seconds later, she emerged from behind a piece of cheap paneling that had a thumb-sized hole cut into it so you could slide it open and closed easily. There was no need for a keypad or security in Paradise Falls, as Chris had taken to calling it. Janique didn't know why, but the name stuck and it been called that ever since.
   Paradise Falls was the name of the trailer park he had bought against her wishes.
   The tunnels came later, of course. At first they just led from the mansion to "their" trailer, but Janique succumbed to tunnel fever eventually, and now the ground under the park was a web-work of catacombs leading to every trailer in the park. Janique justified the expenditures, which were enormous, as security for the home and office. But even on paper, it looked like a bad deal.
   The truth was, Chris couldn't sleep in the posh surroundings Ultimate Hustle afforded them. Part of it was his upbringing, but another, more cunning part of him felt like a sitting duck when he stayed there. So, ten

million dollars so he could sleep at night. And his sleep was important for his own sanity as well as Janique's.
   She shed her clothes and shoes as she made her way to the back bedroom and found him sleeping on a blanket on the floor, her pillow over his head. Janique slipped into position behind him and pulled herself close. She made a few cursory kisses on the back of his neck, and when he didn't wake up or respond, she allowed herself to join him. He was too tired to make it, and she was too tired to fight about it.


   When she did come to at around six p.m. their positions were reversed. Chris was now behind her, kissing her neck, and she responded by pushing her body back against his. They made slow, sweet love. It was a luxury for them. Many of their encounters together were on camera, and slow and sweet didn't sell very well.
   Janique knew this because she tried. It was ostensibly marketed as Christian porn, an idea she felt the world was ready for. The series featured all married couples making love in more-or-less ordinary places, doing ordinary things. It turns out many religious folk were deeply uncomfortable watching other couples because of some misguided feelings that such things were somehow mental adultery. But the ones who did watch porn, the majority, liked it hot and nasty.
   She wasn't religious, but she was spiritual. She supposed that under some circumstances, pornography could lead one or both parties astray, but only if that's what they would have done anyway. The couple that comes together, stays together, she always said. She had tens of thousands of letters to prove it, each thanking her for bringing them together, or for keeping their marriages exciting.
   They basked in the afterglow for a while, and then Chris ran her a bath. It was an old claw-foot, cast iron tub that he had had coated with chrome, and the distorted reflections bouncing around inside it made her dizzy, at times. The water was fed through a tiny waterfall, a scale-model replica of

one on the island of Maui. Janique would lay back and look up at it, and was transported back to, sad to say, happier, simpler times.
   When she stood up and used the shower, which was usually when she and Chris had spent so much time together that she was running late, she felt like a giant. The water fell out of the ceiling like rain, watering the scores of bonsai that covered the landscape. Down by her shins, to the left of the tub was a miniature replica of the banyan tree in Lahaina.
   But she had no fixed schedule today, so Janique soaked and dozed. A few minutes later, Chris woke her with a tray that spanned the width of the tub, their breakfast table, and got in opposite of her.
"Time for dinner," he said.
   Coffee and toast were all Janique usually had in the mornings, but he had prepared one of her favorite omelets as well. In an ashtray next to a tiny rose in a tiny vase was a single, unlit Marlboro red. They ate and drank in silence, refusing to spoil the tranquility by discussing work or money, instead communicating through gestures, caresses, and, they were convinced, thoughts.
   It was Janique who finally spoke. When she lit her cigarette to go with the rest of her coffee, several whisper-quiet intake fans kicked in, venting the smoke into a filtration system in the walls and ceiling.
"That's new," she remarked.
"That way we don't have to get out of the tub to flip a switch," he said. "I love you, Chris!"
"I love you, Janique..."

Chapter 3 - The Love Boat
   Janice was slowly going bald, pulling her hair out trying to keep up with both Janique and Chris's business affairs.
   "No, I'm sorry, but Mrs. Turner is currently unavailable," was her most oft-spoken phrase of late. Chris was never available, instead appearing randomly at any hour of the day or night, or sometimes not for weeks at a time. If he had a phone, Janice never saw it, much less had the number. Only Janique could reach him, and she did so sparingly.
If the payoff were not so great, she thought to herself...
   But, no, she loved the pace. She loved Ultimate Hustle. And most of all, she loved Chris and Janique.


   Chris, in fact, didn't always carry a cell phone. Instead, he had a device that was so black market, few knew it existed. Janique wore the other, although she had to have her iPhone. If for no other reason, she carried it so she could address her four million plus fan club members each night from wherever she happened to be.
   Each of them wore half of a golden heart around their necks and were never without them. Embedded in each was a chip that communicated with software covertly installed in the networks of the major carriers. When Janique dialed Chris's number, the phone nearest to him rang.
   It was extremely convenient, and it satisfied his paranoid need for deep cover. Because while Janique was the face of the company, Chris was the muscle. He never dirtied his hands or allowed Ultimate Hustle's reputation to be tarnished, but if an issue needed special attention, he could devote endless time and resources toward mitigating the problem.
   His cell phone bill alone was nearly five thousand dollars a month. The telco executive who offered him the service kept threatening to raise the rates, but he never had, so far. The one time he had been caught slipping and ended up being held hostage, Janique had simply called the kidnapper's own phone, and they immediately let him go. Because no one crossed Janique Turner and got away with it.



   Janique and Chris met what now seemed like a thousand years ago and ended up incarcerated together in Texas. In prison, he met a character named Tokio who taught him the ultimate hustle: prostitution is illegal, but pornography is not.
   Eventually, they escaped, leaving Tokio and everyone else behind. From prison, they stopped in Vegas to get married, and then spent a month-long honeymoon in Hawaii. It was idyllic, but they were both wanted fugitives. Their fake IDs and half-hearted attempts at disguising themselves meant that they would be driven out of paradise.
   "Here," Chris said, pointing at a map they had pinned to the wall of their condo.
"Tokyo?" she asked.
   "I think that's somehow poetic, don't you? Besides, I have contacts there, thanks to him. And they have no extradition treaty..."
"And all those yummy Asians..." Janique said dreamily. "Simmer down, love. You haven't even finished Hawaii."
   They curled up on the couch and made plans. When the moon was up, they strolled the black sands surrounding the cove they resided in.
"Chris," she asked. "Yes, love?"
"Will we ever stop running?" "Yes, love. And soon."
   Although the night air was cool, beads of perspiration appeared on his forehead, glistening in the moonlight. They only had one hundred and thirteen thousand dollars left. Chris had never let Janique down, and he wasn't about to start now.



   A week later, they were Kyle and Sarah McLaughlin, with jobs on a cruise ship headed for Osaka, Japan. Janique's hair was coal-black, and Chris simply shaved his head. He hated to lose his locks, but it was for a noble cause. Hair grew back, but she was one of a kind.
   It was a four-day jaunt across the ocean, during which time Chris tended bar and Janique waitressed. Other than each other, there was precious little fun to be had. They formed a few tenuous relationships with other couples, but each dissolved when they realized Chris and Janique were more than just friendly.
Almost every time, the man was the weak link in the equation.
   On their last night before entering Osaka Harbor, they won the confidence of a Columbiana dishwasher with freckles and pigtails and gave her a breathtaking experience. At four a.m., they each kissed her cheek and then snuck out of their cabin. They had bribed an engine room mechanic to let them hide some gear in an aft storage area which was near a lower deck accessible only by employees.
   They donned their wetsuits and scuba gear, pitched all traces of themselves overboard, and then plunged into the inky blackness.
Kyle and Sarah McLaughlin were never seen again.

Chapter 4 - Osaka Harbor
   Chris and Janique were fully unprepared for Japan, and it could have gotten them killed. They secured a double coffin room with no ID, simply by visiting the right chain. The clerk had a tattoo down the side of his face that spelled trouble to Chris. It was an ornate and colorful dragon that continued down his neck and into his shirt. A cursory glance around the lobby told him the rest. Two gentlemen in suits wearing sunglasses at night, one missing a finger.
"Fucking Yaks," Chris muttered under his breath.
   They couldn't have heard him, but one turned his head to look at them anyway.
   Although the thug turned smoothly back away from them again, registering nothing, Chris knew Janique had been spotted, appraised, and marked for acquisition.
"What?" Janique asked sleepily. "Yakuza," Chris said. "Nothing."
   Janique relaxed again and began to lower her eyelids. Chris bought two Maruchan noodle cups and canned Cokes for their dinner, and then led her to the entrances of the coffins. He unlocked theirs and helped her inside.
"Stay here," he said, leaving her to dine alone.
   Janique drank her dinner, first the salty, then the sweet, and curled up asleep to wait for Chris.
   He made a pass through the hallways on their floor and noted a lack of cameras. Both good and bad, he guessed, but it seemed to work in his favor. He knew he didn't have all night. They would be coming for them soon.
   After about twenty minutes of waiting and patrolling, he spied his target: a Korean executive crawling into a berth two doors down from their own. Chris waited until he was inside, and then knocked on the hard plastic door. When it was opened wide enough, he snaked the merchant in the side of the head with an angry fist.
   Now that he was out cold, Chris shoved him all the way to the back of the single coffin. In a hurry, he got Janique from their room, never fully waking her, and helped her into their new digs. Finally, he slid in feet first and joined her. She wrapped her naked body around his and held on as though she knew they were in danger, somehow. But Chris couldn't sleep. Not just yet.

   He pulled the door almost shut and lay with his face toward the thin crack of light. His patience was rewarded. In less than two hours, the two henchmen appeared at the door to the suite they had rented. It was considered a suite because it was a double-wide compartment with a small urinal in the floor and a toaster oven embedded in the wall.
   One of the gentlemen produced a passkey, no doubt acquired from the tattooed clerk, and the other a pistol. On a silent three count, one flung the door open as the other tensed his trigger finger. The anti-climax almost made Chris laugh out loud. Dismayed, the two goons puzzled over the situation for a moment, and then walked away arguing in whispers.
   Satisfied once again that he was right, he pulled the door shut and grabbed a much needed six hours of sleep.
   The Korean only woke up twice, and Chris couldn't bear to punch him in the face a third time, so they tied him up and stuffed Janique's panties in his mouth, which seemed to calm him down a bit.

Chapter 5 - Hazel Minx
   They made it to Tokyo on their own and waited until then to contact Tokio's Asian connection.
   It was only later that they learned of Japan's peculiar dirty panty culture. In certain areas of the city you could find used panties sold in clear plastic, like any item at a dollar store. Each included a photo of the girl who wore them, and even her autograph. There were actually vending machines on the streets in some areas, where schoolchildren passed each day, never thinking anything about it.
   Janique found it somewhat refreshing, and it wasn't long before her picture began to appear on packages around Tokyo. But she marketed hers on her own, and her panties cost two and a half times what the others sold for.
   Chris always said he could bottle her as perfume and the Japanese men seemed to agree, as they couldn't keep them on the shelves. The combination of her aroma and photograph proved to be irresistible. She actually almost gave a few men heart attacks when she passed them in the street and they recognized her. But they were so polite they never approached her, at most giving her a bow as she walked by, although a few of them stumbled or walked into street signs, distracted by her appearance. American men would have been rude, if not obnoxious about it, in most cases.
   All they had at that point was a cursory understanding of Japanese etiquette and a translation dictionary. Their first phone call got them absolutely nowhere. The second, more involved conversation was with someone who spoke broken English, but the Tokyo/Tokio part of the call simply created too much confusion.
   On the third attempt a voice said, "This Hazel, what the fuck you motherfuckers want?"
   When they explained their situation and told her who had sent them, a black Mercedes limo picked them up fifteen minutes later.
   "Dag, I'm glad to talk to Americans," Hazel said. "Even a couple white folks, shit."
   Chris and Janique eyed each other, and then all three broke into wide- faced grins. They knew all about Hazel. Just as Tokio told it, she was never a great beauty. But she was, in the parlance, a down-ass bitch. Toke had left her in charge three years earlier, and had never returned.

   "So, how is that dirty, no-good motherfucker, anyway? I'm starting to have trouble hidin' his money."
Janique shot Chris a worried glance. "You don't know?" she asked. "Know what?"
"Tokio is in prison." "For what?"
"Um, child pornography," Chris said. "Oh, bullshit," Hazel snapped.
   "It's true," Janique said. "It's a bogus charge, but he is in a federal pen in Texas."
   "Texas?" she said, "Serves him right, that ain't no place for no black man."
Chris explained the details of his arrest as Hazel poured hot sak�. "I used to hate this shit," she said. "Now it's all I fuck with." "There's more, I'm afraid," Janique said. "He's in a wheelchair."
   Hazel went into near hysterics at this. Tokio may have been gone for years, but to hear Hazel tell it, he was still "her nigga". After she had calmed down a bit, Janique broached the subject of surgery to fix his back enough to insure at least limited mobility.
"How much money does he have?" Janique asked. "Shit, I 'on know, fo' five million."
"There's an operation. The state declined to pay for it." "Mmm-hmm. And how much would somethin' like that cost?" "I was told more than eight hundred thousand."
"Mmm-hmm. And where y'all gon' get that kind of jack?" Chris and Janique looked at each other puzzled.
"I can't spend his money," Hazel said. "But..." Janique started.
   "But, shit," Hazel cut her off, "Rules is rules. This ain't no game or a joke. Shit. This is my career."
"That's absurd," Janique said. Chris stood in silent understanding.
   "Motherfucker, what's absurd is two white folks I don't know tryin' to spend my man's money."
   "But he's crippled and in prison for life. It's what he would want, I'm sure."

"Did he tell you that?"
"No," Janique admitted, looking to Chris, "I never even met him." "A'ight, then. Listen. Do you know what he pays me to run shit? A
fuckin' dollar a year. And I have to give that back." Both looked on in blank amazement. "Bullshit," Janique said.
"You callin' me a fuckin' liar?"
Chris saw Janique open her mouth to argue further and he cut her off. "I'm afraid that's the way it is. Old school."
"What does that mean?" Janique asked.
   Despite her whirlwind romance with Chris, prison stay and all, she was still far from street-smart. She had never even watched Superfly or Dolemite movies before.
"That means the bitch better have his money. Not some or half, but all
of his cash."
Hazel smiled and spread her hands, as if to say, "See?"
   "Hazel is also pretty old school, I'd say. The number one slot ain't no joke."
"Fa sho'," Hazel agreed.
"Why would all these women work for him for free?" Janique asked. "Check yo' premise," Hazel said. "Who said they work for free?" "But they're whores."
"They are actresses. Shit, you don't know the first thing about hustlin'." "How do you live?" Janique finally asked.
"The company buys anything I need. A condo, a car, a driver, groceries.
I don't want for nuttin'."
"Then why not have the company pay for the operation?" "Not in the operating budget," Hazel said.
"Pun Tuesday," Janique said under her breath. "What, bitch?"
   "Hazel," Chris said and shot her a look. She backed down, but didn't apologize. She did relax a bit, though. Something about Chris's tone and demeanor suggested it might be a good idea.
   "Well," Hazel said, "you're prolly legit, and I prolly should listen to you. But I'm not. However, I will say this. If you're telling the truth, I'll reimburse you."

   "Reimburse us?" Chris said. "We don't have eight hundred thousand dollars. Why don't you just call or write the prison?"
   "I know every hustle there is, kid. Toke and I do not trust any form of electronic communication."
"Then go see for yourself."
"And leave you in charge, I guess?" "There's no one you can trust?"
   "Only Tokio. And I can only trust him to be a motherfucker, ya' dig? Eight hundred thou ain't that hard to make here." Hazel eyed Janique. "These Japs'd go crazy for you."
   Hazel turned to Chris. "How 'bout you? Ever beat the fuckin' shit out of someone?"
"I think so, yeah."
"Pistol whip motherfuckers?"
"Even she's done that," Chris said nodding towards Janique. "Slap a bitch?"
"Never in anger. But I think the principle is the same." "Then I can make you a sarariman."
"A what?"
"Sorry, Japanese slang. A salary man. It's a corporate term here." "Like a company man?"
"Right. So, are y'all with it?"
   Chris turned to Janique, who looked at least nonplussed, and he thought he saw of a hint of a smile turning up one corner of her mouth. They had been doing freaky stuff for years already. It only made sense to profit by it.
"Yeah, I think so. But I'd like to know more."
"Ain't no thing but a chicken wing," Hazel said with a smile. "Another Japanese expression?" Janique asked cheekily. "Booker T. Washington Elementary," Hazel replied.

Chapter 6 - Pimpin' Ain't Easy
   Hazel spent a week showing Chris and Janique the ropes. She started with the brothels, sixteen peppered around the city. Each was similar but also had at least one unique element. There were rooms, but each was an oversized movie set, with different themes designed to excite the imagination. There were schoolgirls to molest in classrooms, women to grope on subways, and so much more.
   Janique in particular was entranced. Halfway through the tour of the brothels, she made Hazel promise that they could use any themed room that wasn't being rented out.
"Or girl," Chris added.
Hazel waved her hand at these things as if they were immaterial.
Janique made a mental note to try the tentacle rape room first. "And this is all legal?" she asked Hazel.
   "Shit, no, it ain't legal. But the corruption in Japan is very honest. The cops stay bought. It's part of the budget, just like any business."
   From there they began to tour the clubs. Some were strip clubs, some were just nightclubs, but each had backrooms, or upstairs apartments, and the markup was much higher on girls than it was for alcohol. Plus, pussy was the only thing you could sell again and again and still have at the end of the day.
   "Okay, so that's the last of the clubs. The other businesses are, like, tattoo shops 'n shit. Just to launder the cash."
"I hope he doesn't have a real laundry," Janique said. Hazel ignored this.
"So there's work for Janique at a club or brothel, fine. What about me?" "She ain't working no brothel, fool. She's too fine for that. Imma make
her an Ultimate Hustle girl."
"What about me?" Chris asked again.
   "You'd make an ugly woman. Your territory is everywhere else. The clubs and whorehouses are handled, and as far as movies go, the Japs don't want to see no gaijin ass like yours in they face. They want to imagine it's their little wangs beating it up. How hung are you?" she asked.
"Uh, a little over nine inches, I guess."
   "Damn," Hazel said, "that's like more than two Japs. But I think you'd be good at breaking the new girls down. I mean in." She winked at him. "Mostly I'm gonna send you to collect from people who owe us. No

shortage of folks, there. I'll keep you in mind for movie work, but it doesn't really fly over here. Tokio always said he wanted another shot at the American market, though..."
"One question," Chris said. "Where do we stand with the Yakuza?" "Mortal enemies," Hazel said, keeping eye contact with him as she said
it to emphasize her point. "Great."
   "It ain't that bad. We had to come in blastin', regulate a little. Let it be known we do some things the American way. I think when the body count got too high, they backed off. But these inscrutable motherfuckers don't forgive and they don't forget."


   Hazel put them both on salary immediately, and then eased them into the job for the first five days. The company bought Chris a new wardrobe, a Mercedes, a gun, and even brass knuckles. By the end of the week, he was starting to get results. Janique just spent her nights at the various clubs building interest, which was part of Hazel's strategy.
"Why not just get to work?" Janique initially asked her.
   "Because you're worth so much more than these other bitches," she said. "So we need to find out the most they'll pay for you. Plus, this is a special case. Since this is for Tokio, in theory, I can pay you royalties."
"You don't pay your actresses royalties?" she asked.
   "Shit no. Cash on the barrelhead, your money is on the dresser. But I've refined the hustle since Tokio left. Now I get the men to sign a release, too. That way I get sellable video with zero production costs."
   "Now, that's pretty shrewd," Janique agreed. "And what if they won't sign?"
   "Then they don't get no pussy. Sayonara. You'd be amazed at how that motivates most men."
   Chris and Janique's stars were both rising in the endlessly expanding Tokyo sex trade. At the end of the first week, Chris had collected roughly

ten thousand dollars. Janique's going rate for Ultimate Hustle was about five thousand dollars for a one-hour video session, public or private.
   They both learned a lot about human behavior, men and women in general, and the Japanese in particular. Japanese women were the most jealous and possessive on the planet. They kept their men by and large by killing them with kindness. Japanese men were expected to have mistresses. They were also expected to be discreet about it. Everything was about saving face and keeping up with appearances in middle-class society, there. The rich and poor did as they pleased.
   The male/female dynamic was complex and multi-layered, much as it was anywhere else. The men dominated the women who dominated the men who dominated their children who dominated their parents.
   The women demanded an exacting perfection that forced everyone to strive for greatness. In return, they were utterly sublimated to the will of their husbands, sexually and otherwise. Japanese women never had to make decisions. Relieved of their burdens, they were able to focus their many talents on themselves, a favorite topic for most people.
   The result was a garden of earthly delights the likes of which Janique had never even dreamt of in America. Everything was taboo, and anything was possible. A woman could perform any act of carnality you could imagine yet carry herself with the air of full dignity. The men were at the same time, cruel controllers who had engineered an entire social construct based on total fealty, and slaves who were controlled by their own creation, as well.
   It was an arrangement everyone seemed to be happy with, and those who were not could always opt out. Japan sported a counterculture that perfectly offset and balanced the twisted normalcy of Japanese family life. In it, ragged bands of misfit otaku formed family units composed of freaks. Sometimes the family was a single person. Japan's response to normalcy was weirdness, and Japan's response to weirdness was normalcy.
   It was normally weird. The bottom line was that it was good for the bottom line of Ultimate Hustle.

Chapter 7 - The Game
   It wasn't long before Janique began to look at the nuts and bolts of Tokio and Hazel's operation.
   "Hazel, there's a lot of money to be made on the front end of the video thing. That's what I feel we should be pursuing. We're leaving money on the table."
   "Pursuing, shit. I don't have the resources to expand any more. We're stretched thin as it is."
"I'm just not seeing any significant revenue coming out of that end.
Who handles your distribution?" "Some Chinese cat. Mr. Duck." "Mr. Duck, really?"
   "That's all I know. Look, to tell the truth, I haven't worked that angle enough. I got bigger problems."
"Like what?" Janique asked.
   "Like all these teeny boppers hookin'. And that's if they ain't just givin' it away. Can't nobody compete with teen pussy."
"I can," Janique said curtly.
"Look, you ever see any of these flicks?" "No, why?"
   "They're terrible. Mostly terrible. You can have the hottest bitches in the world and believe me we got that, but if the dudes are lame, you ain't got shit."
"Unless the girl is being punished." "Huh?"
   "Put some hot chick with some fat guy, some old guy, it becomes a different sort of movie."
"I don't know. I don't know if they into all that." "What are they into the most?"
"Ghosts," Hazel answered. "What?"
   "Well, I'm no social scientist 'n shit, but I would hazard a fuckin' guess that havin' millions of your people fuckin' incinerated might make you turn to the spirit world."
"Interesting."
   "Black people got that, too. But we try not to see the ghosts. If we do see 'em, we pretend we don't. And you know what ruined black people in

America? Slavery." "I bet."
   "Not how you think. Black people have been so twisted they can't imagine happiness in slavery. Japanese women can't imagine anything else. In that respect, they're much happier."
"Huh?"
   "It's just that we, black folks, I mean, are subconsciously obsessed with freedom, to the exclusion of the possibility of our own happiness."
"Huh?" Janique said again.
"What the fuck am I?" Hazel asked. "Huh?"
"Bitch, if say 'huh' again Ima coldcock yo' ass." "What are you? You're a lot of things."
"I'm a fuckin' slave." "Come on, Hazel."
"I make a dollar a year, I can't leave and I jump when he says jump.
What the fuck am I?"
   "But you can leave. You don't have to do what he says. You could take money for yourself, even."
   "That's the bitch of it, Johnnie Cat. I can't. He's been gone for years, but I can no more defy him now than if he was standing in front of me. Steal money from him? Unthinkable."
"Hazel, I can help."
   "Help, shit. I've never been happier. That's what I'm getting at. A slave has value. Most people lack self-worth, and they aren't valued by others. I'm valued by virtue of my status. And remember: the things we own also own us. See, these Jap bitches understand all that. Their biggest dilemmas are about what to have for dinner."
"Wow," Janique said. "You sound like a social scientist to me." "Gull, you better watch yo' mouth. Wit' cho' narrow ass." Janique smiled.
"I'll go Nat Turner on you, fuck wit' me."
   "Heh. Must be a relative of Chris's. Tell you what, give me a week and access to the production studio, and I'll get you some product. Then I'll deal with Mr. Duck."
   "I can't see the harm. But you understand what I mean about being a slave, right?"

   "Of course I do. I've been a happy little slave for years, now. Feels like forever. I love it."
"Heh. You all right, Jojo."
"You need to settle on a nickname. I suggest Janique."
"Cute. By the way, the bidding war is over, your price is established.
Fifty-eight hundred dollars an hour." "Psh. Is that all?"
"That's more than Japan's top porn star makes for a whole day." "Meh. I'm worth it."
"We'll find out tonight. You have a date." "Really? Cool. Can Chris be my camera guy?" "No cameras on this one. Client's request." "What? But it's Ultimate Hustle."
   "Not in Japan. It's easier to just go gangsta, here. The video end is just a concession to Tokio's ideals. But if you think you can polish that particular turd, go ahead."
Janique crinkled her nose. "Nice analogy," she said. "Nice pun," Hazel said. "Must still be Tuesday."

Chapter 8 - Production Value
   While Chris did bring in a decent income, Janique made forty thousand dollars plus on her first week. She ran the numbers and was unsatisfied with the timetable. It was decided that Chris would write their first film. He only worked an hour or two a day, strictly speaking, so it seemed logical enough.
"Write me something sweet, okay? Happy ending?" "All porn movies have happy endings," he said.
"Don't think porn. Think art. Put your love for me into this script."
   "Oh. Well, when you put it like that," he said. "This is going to be the best porno ever."
He told her his idea for a story. She smiled at him so hard his eyes hurt. "That's my Chris," she said and left him with everything he needed to
write: alcohol, music, food, water, and a windowless room. He really wanted pot, but Hazel said she couldn't get any. Coke was out of the question, because neither Chris nor Janique trusted the Japanese to that extent. No way were they going to be separated and imprisoned again.
   Then she went shopping. Ordinarily, she disdained the act. This time, however, it was different. For one thing, it was Japan. But more importantly, it was for her and Chris to play. She found herself the most delicate white kimono imaginable, and then tried to find shoes big enough to fit her. If nothing else, shopping in Japan was a challenge. For Chris she found a deep black kimono, and an authentic World War Two kamikaze pilot uniform.
   For a few days, Janique focused on set design while she let Chris write. Luckily, one of the cathouses, or noodle shacks, as Hazel called them, had a traditional Japanese room with paper walls and low tables.
   For the next element, she needed a 7-11 convenience store. She drove all over town, refusing to ask for help, as is the Asian way, and finally found one. Janique never considered the possibility that there were no 7-11s in Japan at all. What she was looking for was a horror movie magazine called Fangoria, and if there was one thing she knew about the era she lived in, it was that all 7-11s sold Fangoria.
   She thumbed through the pages, rifling through the first third quickly enough. It was full of glossy shots from the movie sets of various horror films. She did briefly pause on one article that looked interesting. It was a preview of a movie called "A Nightmare on Elm Street". But as the ads got

smaller her progress through the magazine got slower. She reached the end, discouraged, and began again, this time starting in the back.
   She was beginning to lose hope when she spotted it: a Hong Kong effects house that specialized in blood and gore. Janique was on the phone in an instant, before she remembered she spoke almost no Japanese, and no Chinese at all.
"'lo," an American voice said.
   "Hey, hi," she said in response. "Sorry, I didn't expect English. I need to hire some effects artists..."
After she got off the phone, Janique visited Hazel. "Haze, I need more money."
"Shit, join the club."
   "No, I mean for my first real production. I have to hire an effects artist and a cinematographer."
"Bitch, you makin' a flick, not the sequel to 'Star Wars'." "Yeah, I know. But this is going to be big. It's an investment." Hazel sighed. Janique was too earnest to be denied.
"How much?"
"About sixteen thousand."
Hazel pretended to do a spit take. "Sixteen what whats?" she asked.
"Petty cash. You know I'm a money maker." "Yeah, but..."
"But what?"
   Hazel considered it and found she didn't have any real qualms. The money was already there from Janique's thriving new nightlife. And day life. Her twenty-four-hour availability translated into big money for the cause. But it did occasionally eat into her art. Or what she was rapidly coming to accept as her art.
   Her next step along those ends was to find a tailor. There was certainly no shortage of them in China, but Tokyo was a fast-forward culture that would rather purchase clothes that fit off the rack, and simply throw away clothes that didn't. Ultimately, she selected one at random from the phonebook. The effects house had sent her a color swatch by courier, something they called a Pantone color.
   This time she struck the language barrier hard. Instead of giving up and calling the next number, she summoned Hiro, one of the few male staffers

at Ultimate Hustle Japan, and as gay as a three-yen note.
   "I ain't havin' no one sniffin' around my girls," Hazel had said regarding her hiring choices.
   He spoke flawless English, Chinese, Japanese, and Spanish. But when he wasn't translating he adopted the most ridiculous American ghetto patois.
"Hello, Hiro," Janique began. "Yo, Nikkei, how's it, yo?"
   "Um, average," she said. Hiro was the only person she consciously allowed to use a nickname for her. This was his one joke she shared with him since the second time they spoke. The Nikkei Average was the name of the Japanese Dow Jones equivalent.
"What's the Dilly Bar, Yo-Yo Ma?" His English was delightfully skewed.
"I need you to take a trip to the garment district with me."
   He switched to gay guy parody mode. "The garment district? I live in the garment district!"
"Great. Then meet me here."
She gave him the confusing address and a one-hour deadline. "But I'm at work."
"Great. This is work-related."
   When she hung up the phone, the thought crossed her mind that she had no idea what his function in the organization was. Nevertheless, he was punctual, although undignified in dress. He was sporting Puma sweats, Chuck Taylor Converse, a Newport cigarettes baseball cap, and a Casio stopwatch hanging around his neck. The numbers were blinking twelve relentlessly.
   Janique explained the situation, which was aided by the fact that he and Chris shared the same build.
"I'm Audi," he said in departure.

Chapter 9 - Plain White Panties
   Chris was communing with the spirits, vodka, primarily. He told Janique that it was screwdrivers that kept his mind lubricated. Because writing was suddenly serious business. He found he could balance on the precipice between waking and sleeping almost indefinitely if the mood was right. And that is where the stories came from.
   Or so he believed. They had to come from somewhere, right? The only problem was, when he was done with the script, it was entitled "Plain White Panties", and there were no scene descriptions or pages of contrived dialogue.
Just poetry.
The phone rang.
"Chris, how the script coming?" "I love you, too, Janique."
   "Sorry, I'm just in the flow of things, you know? The fact that I love you remains a great, fixed constant. Invariable. Now tell me how my first script is coming along."
"Oh, it's good, I think. I'm still really brainstorming and storyboarding.
The pacing feels right."
"Anything you can read to me?"
"Well, I do have something... But it's not from the script." "Really?"
"I sort of had another idea for a movie. Kinda weird. Based on poetry." "Poetry, you say..." It went unspoken between them that Chris's
previous forays into the world of verse had been unsatisfactory for both of them, apart from the poems inspired by Still Life with Woodpecker.
   "Yeah, so anyway. Let's say there's this guy. He schmoes around with his buddies, all of which are always looking to score. And he sees that their approaches are wildly flawed. So, instead, he begins spending his nights alone, reading and writing. Studying. Listening."
"Wow," was all Janique could muster.
   "And he realizes that the best one can do is fulfill the desires of just one woman. Make her the happiest, luckiest woman alive, forever. So while he's on an inner journey, mining his own depths for the words, or rather the tools he needs to arrange the words, he's also seeking his inspiration."
"His muse," Janique said.
"And it's only when he quit looking that he finds her."

A silent eternity passed between them.
   "So, anyway, this poem title is also the name of the film, I think. There's no dialogue. It's all montages and voiceover readings of poems. I imagine a few hot, but ultimately loveless encounters before he meets her to pad out the length of the film and build tension."
He cleared his throat and began.
"Plain white panties

Sitting in my hand
I wonder what you're wearing And if you think of me"
"When," Janique said, "Not if." Chris continued.
"There's nothing that I wouldn't give

To live amongst your grace And cover you from head to toe With ribbons, bows, and lace"
"Ooh," Janique said.
"Words will fail the weight possessed It's hard to understand

Of these plain white panties Still sitting in my hand"
Janique said nothing.
"Well?" Chris asked, "What do you think?"
"It's a beautiful poem, Chris. But it's not a movie script." "Huh?"
"It's missing a verse." "It is?"
   "Yes, it is. Because the images it conjures up are all fantasy. He's imagining her at the beginning and he's imagining her at the end. He needs to be remembering her. To ground it in reality. Know what I mean?"
"I do, actually."
"Well, find that other verse, and you have your movie. As I see it." Chris pondered this and the line went dead. He started to hit redial,
when he turned to see Janique in the doorway, clad solely in the acclaimed plain white panties and white thigh-high stockings with bows down the outsides. He dropped the phone and swept everything off of his desk. They made love as they once had, not stopping until she was in what they both called a porno coma.


   The next morning, morning being whatever time they awoke in the windowless, clockless room, they sipped coffee, and Chris wrote, first lighting them both cigarettes. To his growing list of proposed movie titles, he added "Porno Coma" and smiled at Janique. She glowed in response.
   "Chris, you might as well call that movie, 'Rented Lips,' because it's never going to happen."
"What?"
   "It's too beautiful. It's not right for the Asian market, and I don't think even the Americans are ready for romance in their smut."
"If the sex is really hot, and the woman is the most desirable on earth?" "That's the deciding factor in porn, isn't it?"
Chris smiled and added "Rented Lips" to the list.



   When Hiro delivered the suit to Janique two days later, he was wearing a t-shirt that said: So it turned out that God actually was a blind watchmaker who played dice with the universe. She thanked him with an embrace and for a moment Janique felt his arm around her waist in a manner that was a little too familiar, a little too intimate for a friendly hug. She filed this away with her other notes about the cryptic Hiro and brought the unopened package to Chris.
Before she said a word, he read these to her:
"When I came home, you had left And took a part of me

  Leaving nothing but a toothbrush And some laundry, as we shall see..."
"Chris, that's it! Laundry, eh?"
   "I wrote is after you left that day. It ties the whole thing together, like you said. Now she's a memory and a fantasy."
"And a reality," Janique added.
He moved to embrace her, and she stopped him.
   "Wait," she said, handing him the brown paper package tied with twine. "Put this on, first."
   He pulled out a bright green body suit with a concealed Velcro seam up the back.
   "A superhero outfit?" he asked. He looked closer. "There's no eyes, or mouth. And are those genitals?"
"Easy, tiger," she said. "It's for the ghost scenes." "I don't get it."
"Just try it on," she said.
   He grumbled slightly but began to slide the skintight suit on over his naked body. When he was fully inside, fingers and toes arranged into the gloves and socks, she closed the seam.
   "I think the wang sock is a case of wishful thinking," he said, wagging the limp piece of cloth at her.
"So, if I rub it, can I make a wish?" she teased.
   Soon the fabric was stretched tight. Janique's skilled hands brought him most of the way, and a few well-placed kisses finished him off.
   "It's machine washable," Janique said, smiling, as she helped him back out of the costume.
   She had on low-hung, pin-striped business slacks with an exposed thong, which he immediately reached for.
"Save it, honey," she said. "We have a date."

Chapter 10 - Smell the Set-Up
America - Now
   Natalia and Janice were meeting in secret. It was a dangerous game she was playing, setting Natalia up like this. If it went bad, she would be implicated, which would be devastating in more ways than one. She witnessed firsthand what had happened to those who crossed Janique in the past. She spied the catsuit and cigarette holder as soon as she looked for her. Natalia strode up and exhaled one last lungful of smoke before they stepped into the pub.
   It was the sort of place where no one would pay any attention to them and it wasn't in the orbit of Ultimate Hustlers, who tended to congregate where the money was. With flamboyant Natalia contrasting her own dowdiness, they looked like some exotic lesbian couple that even the most boorish drunk would be reluctant to hit on.
"Smoking or non?" the pudgy hostess asked.
   "Non," Janice said in a hurry, causing Natalia to screw up her face. She let the moment pass unremarked.
   They steered the hostess to a booth in the corner where they could talk without whispering.
   "So, tell me again," Natalia cooed in that melodic adaptation of English that seemed to be the exclusive property of Italian, Spanish, and French girls. "How many girls are we talking about?"
   "Oh, goodness," Janice said, "There are over seven thousand women actively working for Ultimate Hustle. If Janique has it her way, next year, it'll be five times that."
"Oh, really?"
"Yes, and I've seen her five-year plan..." "And?"
   "One hundred thousand girls, and an income of two point six billion per day."
"And how much of that is profit?" "Huh? All of it."
"That's not possible."
   "It is, I've seen it. That's just the way she has things structured. There are things I can't tell you about, or she'd know. But rest assured, her operating costs are nil."
"So, how do we do it?" Natalia asked.

"The database is the key," Janice said. "Right, you said that before. What is it?"
   "Well, it's like accounting software she wrote with Brad. It tracks the girls, and their jobs, and cuts the checks, basically."
"Okay, so?"
   "So, each girl has a unique ID number. And the numbers are never reused. Don't you see?" she asked excitedly.
"See what?" Natalia asked, showing a touch of her growing irritation. "All we have to do is find the retired numbers, and assign them to new
girls, deposited into another account. Our account."
"But won't the girls raise the alarm when they don't get paid?"
   "That's just it, there are no girls. Just made-up names and numbers. We can get them from the social security rolls. Heck, the dead can vote, why can't they make money, too?"
   "Three billion dollars a day, and I make less than the whores," Natalia spat.
   "There's only one real problem. It's a big one. Brad is the only person who can modify the database. I keep telling her it's the chink in her armor, but she just says, 'Japan was a long time ago, Janice,' and smiles. I think she's making a pun, but you can't always be sure with her."
"We kill him," Natalia concluded.

Chapter 11 - The Replica, Revisited
Japan - Then
   From there, Janique brought Chris across town, but she wouldn't tell him why.
"It's a surprise," is all she would say.
   When they arrived, it was at the studios of Def/X, mainlanders (as Janique now thought of the Japanese people) who were working on some of the prosthetics with her Hong Kong effects group.
"What's all this, then?" he asked in his best cockney accent. "Another piece of wardrobe. Come on."
   She led him in the front door and walked right past the receptionist into the warehouse-sized workshop in the back.
   "Konnichiwa, Tak," Janique said as she bowed gracefully at the waist. She was really beginning to enjoy the formality of Japanese culture. It lent everything an air of dignity, even buying a hot dog on a street corner.
"Arigato, Janique. Is this the model?"
   "Yes, he is. One of a kind, too." She flashed her stunning smile at them both.
   "Given the, uh, sensitive nature of this assignment, I set up a chair in a dressing room," Tak said.
"I'm sure he appreciates it."
   Chris was unused to being talked about as if he were a dog or side of beef.
   "Okay, Janique. What gives?" he said, obviously running out of patience.
She kissed him lightly on the cheek.
"We need to cast a mold of you, for the film." "A mold? What kind of mold?"
   He was thinking about the seppuku scene he was trying to write: chest and stomach.
She squeezed him through his jeans. "This kind." "What? Why?"
"You'll see..."
Tak led them to a combination dressing and fitting room.
"Here should be everything you need. My people will be in soon."
   This time he bowed first, and Janique gave an old-fashioned curtsey in return.

   The room had a Hollywood-style vanity, with tri-view mirrors, and Janique knew she would have to have the same for herself someday. There was also a barber's chair, sink, and hairdryer.
"Strip," she said. "Hey!"
"Don't be shy Chris," she said. "I've seen what you got." "You first," he said, toying with her.
   But Janique had no compunction against nudity, even public nudity, so he followed her lead.
   Soon he was on his back in the chair as she fellated him. He began hoping the latex people would arrive soon, because Janique was on fire, and she was driving him crazy. Then there was a polite knock at the door.
Chris sat upright.
   "Ssshhh," she said, and draped a towel over his eyes. "This won't hurt a bit."
   "Konnichiwa," Janique said, rapidly depleting her supply of Japanese words, giggling.
   Three twenty-something girls walked in, demurely talking into their hands. The chattering stopped when they spied Chris's erect cock.
"This a...he?" the apparent ringleader of the girls managed. "This a he," Janique agreed, and grinned.
The girl's porcelain skin turned crimson. "Ees a big," the girl continued.
   "Pretty big," Janique agreed. "And although there are bigger, Goldilocks, this one is just right."
   The girls had towels, and a bucket of warm latex, but she could already see the tower of his manhood starting to lean. Janique, who never became aware of her own nakedness, leaned over and kissed Chris on the mouth as she attempted to re-stimulate his interest. She lost herself, and only came back when she heard the three girls oohing and aahing.
   Crikey, Janique thought, These aren't porn girls, they're make-up artists.
   Just then, another girl's hand replaced Janique's, and if Chris knew, he didn't let it show. Amused, she continued to kiss him as he pulsed and throbbed to new heights. Just then, she saw another girl raise the pail with the steaming, flesh-colored goo, and begin to scoop some out.

   "Esa hot," the girl said, and before Janique could react, she had dumped a large pile on Chris's cock.
   "Yeow!" he yelled, sitting upright again. The best Janique could do was keep his eyes covered. If he saw these three cherry blossoms, she thought, he'd want to do all four of us. And we'd let him, furthermore. The idea had a lot more appeal than working did at the moment, but she persevered.
   "Lay down," she told him forcefully, pushing on his chest at the same time. The Asians watched this with some amazement, shocked at her audacity.
"It's hot," was all he could manage to say in his defense.
   "You have no idea," Janique said, leaning over to kiss her first Japanese girl ever.
   While Janique alternated between her and Chris, the others held him firm and coated his member with latex.
   When they were done, both leaned in and began to blow, cooling the concoction to the temperature it needed to set.
"How long?" Janique asked.
One girl pulled out a tape measure.
   "No, time. How long do we have to wait?" She pointed at her watch, a Bugs Bunny model.
   The girl with the latex nodded and showed Janique her own watch with a cute little white kitten on it, tracing thirty minutes around the face of it.
   "Okay," she said. "About twenty-five minutes, Chris. Are you with me?"
He groaned. "Kiss me," he begged her.
   Roughly twenty-two minutes later, one of the two girls monitoring the situation tapped Janique's bare shoulder.
"Esa time," she said.
   She had started to forget what she was even doing here. Janique looked down and saw one Asian girl blowing on Chris's balls, another pointing at her watch, and the third, the one she was kissing, was standing there with smeared make-up and a dazed, stoned look of bliss on her face.
"Time's up, Chris. Make it soft so they can take the mold." "Um, Janique?" he said. "That ain't gonna happen."
   "Fiddle-dee-dee," Janique said, "I'll bet if we leave you alone for five minutes, it'll go down."

   "Okay, five minutes. Any more and I'm ripping it off and attacking you."
"Promises, promises," she replied.
   The kitty and the bunny kept time, but at the five-minute mark, there was no change in the patient's condition.
   "It's too tight," he said. "It ain't goin' anywhere. Make me cum, please."
Did she hear a note of panic creeping into his voice? Surely not.
   "Are you sure you don't want to wait some more?" she asked sweetly, knowing he must be getting frantic.
"No! I swear, Janique, I want this thing off now."
   "Okay, okay," she said. "Give me a minute. It's gonna be hard, erm, difficult, considering I can't really touch your cock at all."
   She fell back on cash as the solution to her problems. Janique held up six one-hundred-dollar bills and then locked the door. The girls seemed to understand, and they were all in a veritable frenzy at that point, anyway. So, without a word, she raised Chris's legs at the knees and put his feet on the armrests.
   She handed each girl two hundred dollars and moved them into position. There was a moment of silent trepidation as the girl assigned to the middle wrinkled her nose and shook her head slightly. Like a coach, Janique quickly substituted her newfound girlfriend, who accepted the role happily and without question. When everyone was poised, Janique said, "Are you ready, Chris?"
"Uh, yeah," he said, waggling it back and forth in the air.
   "Okay," she said, and gave a silent three count to the girls, who all moved in close together and began licking and kissing him anywhere there was no latex.
   "Ungh," he groaned, "How are you..." He never got to finish asking the question before Janique's mouth was upon his. By then it was a race to the finish.
"Janique," he said, "I'm almost ready."
   With that, she lifted the towel from his eyes and he peered down at the three nymphs frolicking in his front yard. She kissed him again, and he exploded. If the latex hadn't been well set, he would have blown the end off of the mold. The trio of Asians tee-heed and blushed in the manner of girls

who are partly ashamed and partly proud of their actions. Then the lead girl removed the latex cast from Chris's crotch, and they were gone.
Two of the three gave Janique their phone numbers on the way out.

Chapter 12 - Slouching Toward Bethlehem
America - Now
"Kill him?" Janice asked, horrified.
   "Of course. Thesis, antithesis, synthesis. Or problem-reaction-solution, if you prefer. Do you have a more novel approach?"
"The problem with your solution is that it destroys the Gordian knot.
Or," she paused, "Kills the goose that lays the golden eggs, if you prefer." "But, you understand this...database, don't you?"
   "Sure, as much as I can without reading books on authoring, design, and maintenance."
   "Then I suggest you start. Become his apprentice. Seduce him, if you have to. And let Janique know you want to do more than the pitiful duties assigned to you."
   Natalia spoke so authoritatively, Janice found it impossible to argue with her. It was only after they separated that she emerged from the corrupting cloud of Natalia's influence. Seduce Brad? She didn't know if that was even possible, on her part or his. He worked around the most beautiful and sexually open women in the world, and he rarely seemed to notice them, unless they happened to block his view of a monitor or bank of switches and dials.
   Not only that, but Janice didn't feel capable of seducing anyone. There was only one man for her anyway, Chris Turner. She could do it, she mused. For him. Janique's interests were her interests.

Chapter 13 - Wardrobe and Script
Japan - Then
"Well, that was fun," Janique said as they left the effects house." "Yes it was. But what was it for?"
   "Well, it's for an effects shot we need for the film, obviously. But I also had them make a few dildos with the mold, too. When you're a famous porn star, we can sell them to every woman in America."
He smiled at her smile. "The American dream," he said. "Let's go knife shopping."
   "Yow," Chris said, remembering that his last few knife play sessions had been in prison. "You could have me for a cup of coffee."
She kissed him. "Or a kiss."
   Janique needed authentic, vintage World War II-era ceremonial knives, and she also wanted a samurai sword. They trawled the pawn shops and military surplus stores for hours, until someone suggested they try the jewelry district. Suddenly, they had an endless array of items to choose from. At the second shop they visited, she found everything she was looking for. The handles were mother-of-pearl inlaid with deep green emeralds that seemed to glow with an inner fire. The blades shone like polished mirrors, ending in a subtle curve that reminded her of the knives used to gut fish. Perfect.
   After they shopped, they dined on Kobe beef, now their all-time favorite cut of meat, next to each other.
   "Okay, so storyboard me," Janique commanded, wanting to know more than the tidbits Chris had told her so far. All he really had given her was an outline, enough for her to handle the wardrobe, effects, and props.
   "Well, there's a couple, of course. Young and very much in love. Blessed. We show their courtship, their picture-perfect wedding through montages. The first sex scene is their wedding night."
"Ooh," she said. "I like it!"
"They live, they work, they play. Life is good. Then the war comes.
He's drafted." "Oh, no!"
   "He knows he has a duty to his Emperor, and his country. But all he wants is her. For all his love for her, he cannot bring shame upon them by

deserting. They make love one final time, the second of the scenes. He leaves in the morning, dressed in his uniform."
"Aww."
   "They both know he won't be back. Under his officer's cap he wears a headscarf with the ideogram for kamikaze: divine wind. But the further he gets from her, the harder it is to leave. Finally, he turns around, abandoning the war, and rushes back to her. But instead of making love to her again, he presents her with the seppuku daggers, and she understands at once. They would rather die than be apart. So, the suicide scene, properly shot, would be the last scene. A different, but similar act. The end."
Janique was silent for a moment. "It's really good, Chris. I love it." "Great."
"But it's not done." "What?"
   Janique continued the story for him. "So they kill themselves to be together forever. But she wakes up in a hospital bed. She's numb with the realization that her husband is dead. She returns to their empty home and tries to move on with her life. But his presence is everywhere.
   "After a week or so, she starts to imagine seeing him out of the corners of her eyes. Each time she turns to look, there's no one there. But he is there. She just can't see him, and he can't communicate with her. The thought of him becomes too much for her, and she masturbates wearing his uniform jacket and hat, while clutching a photo of him. That's the third sex scene. Or fourth, depending on what you consider the hari-kari scene."
"Wow."
   "But she can't orgasm without him. She tries on successive nights, to no avail. Each time, he manifests a bit more. She gives a last frantic attempt one night, in front of a mirror. Once again, she gets no release and abandons her efforts, crying."
Now it was Chris's turn to say "Aww."
   "Then she feels him kiss her pussy. She knows it's him, but she doesn't want to believe it. She opens her eyes, but there's no one there. Then she sees his reflection and understands. He's a ghost. So she closes her eyes again, and they make love. When they're done, he indicates that he has to leave. She begs him to stay, but he cannot.
   "She grabs a dagger, the same one he used, and finishes herself off. As she bleeds out, he takes her hand and they walk to the door. She leaves

bloody footprints as she walks, but they stop before they reach it. She's a ghost now, too."
"Damn," he said. "I like your ending better, for sure." "I'm surprised you didn't think of it yourself."
   "I tried something like that, actually. But I wasn't sure how to handle the fact that he's a ghost. Would he look like a human? Fade him transparent?"
   "I know, Chris. I got your drafts out of the trash when you were sleeping. Don't worry about the technical details. That's what the suit and mold are for."
"Huh?"
   "I have it all worked out with the effects house. Do you know how the weather maps are done on TV?"
   He rolled his eyes. Chris had never owned one, and hadn't watched TV since the night he met Janique.
   "Well, anyway, the wall is blue or green, and they film them standing in front of it. Then they key the weather maps onto the wall."
"Key?"
   "Yeah, that's what they call it. I'm learning a lot about the production side, lately. I have to."
"So when I wear the suit..." "You'll be invisible on camera."
"Wow, again. And what is the cast for?"
"A flawless glass reproduction of your cock." "Hey-oh," he said.
   "We'll have to shoot certain parts of it twice. But I'll be wearing what is essentially an invisible dildo, and when you blend the images together, we'll see you in the mirror, and there will be an invisible man fucking me, right down to the penetration and dilation."
"The most technically advanced porn ever." "So far," she said. "Just finish the script."
   "I'll try. I want to work with someone smart for the subtitles. So the words aren't lost in translation."
"I've got just the guy," she said, smiling.

Chapter 14 - Action
   The day before shooting began, Chris and Janique moved into the model Japanese home and began to get into their roles. They dressed and ate traditionally, and overall tried to become Japanese versions of themselves, a couple very much in love, with the rest of their lives ahead of them.
   It worked a little too well. They fluctuated wildly from crying and lamenting to furious lovemaking, until Chris suggested they save it for the cameras, rehydrate, and get some rest. As they lay on their mats, wooden neck rests supporting their slightly elevated heads, they both got an eerie feeling that it really was their last night together.
   The effect this had on their performances cannot be underestimated. Chris and Janique acted from the heart. While most of this was expressed as lust and passion, in the case of this particular film, their first commercial effort, it also translated into emotion-laden acting that was palpable from the first of the dailies. She had been worried that such nuances wouldn't survive the various format changes the source footage would undergo during the effects process.
   Out of shrewdness or instinct, indistinguishable from each other within her, she elected to take the Analog-Analog-Digital route. The film was shot on seventy-two millimeter with Dolby sound. If she liked the results, she might consider looking into the experimental THX sound system. But a film with only two people in it would do well in stereo. More than two would need surround sound, she determined.
   Her cinematographer, an Eastern European �migr� whose name was an unpronounceable string of illogical consonants, was somehow the world's greatest camera operator. Although his assistant did the physical work of filming, his vision and direction lent the movie its distinctive look and feel.
   Janique had told him that she wanted the entire first half of the film to be trancelike and dreamy. He delivered in spades. Each shot was dollied, trucked, steady-cammed, and generally manhandled into perfection. When she first viewed the dailies, she knew they would have a hit on their hands. The thought occurred to her, ignored, that she should soften the sex scenes down to a hard "R" intensity and give the film a wide commercial release.
Someday, she thought. But for now, it was Ultimate Hustle.

Chapter 15 - Cherry Blossoms
   To Chris and Janique's surprise and delight, the film was a much bigger hit than they had anticipated it would be. Janique negotiated an open-ended distribution deal that allowed her downstream a lot of leeway as to where the film was shown, providing them with the incentive to promulgate the film far and wide, greatly increasing their profit potential.
   They settled on the title Cherry Blossoms, which nicely titillated the mind while subtly foreshadowing the blood roses that bloomed under the doomed lovers' kimonos. No one who caught the first showing had any idea of the carnage to come. But word-of-mouth spread like a fire, and the movie made its way from seedy porno theaters into underground art houses. Film students began attending the showings to study the form and techniques employed, both cinematic and sexual. Janique became Japan's gaijin darling, both for her dignified grace and beauty as well as her sexual daring. Chris also attracted attention, for his combination of tenderness and savagery. Suddenly, Janique's asking price climbed to nine thousand dollars an hour, and Japanese women began contacting Hazel, secretly arranging
liaisons with Yajyuu, "The Beast", as they had taken to calling him.
   The films initial run in Japan grossed an impressive one hundred and ninety-two thousand dollars. Suddenly, it was serious business, forcing Janique and Hazel to scramble for a new law firm capable of dealing with the vagaries and complexities of international copyright law and royalties.
   Their decision to perform in English proved to be a wise one. Coupled with Hiro's excellent translations, it made releasing copies in other countries relatively easy. The film didn't create the same sensation in other countries as it had in Japan, but that was understandable. It was intentionally a film for the Japanese. China, with their love/hate relationship with Japan, bootlegged it extensively.
   All told, the film brought in nearly four hundred thousand dollars in legitimate cash. The only real business blunder came when they elected to enter the infant video tape market.
"VHS," Janique said.
   "Fuck that shit," Hazel said. "Beta is betta. Higher resolution, better sound. Shit, even the tapes is smaller."
"But Haze, the inferior technology usually wins out in the end."
   "Like a muhfukin' atomic bomb?" Hazel said, as if that settled the debate.

   It was an important decision, because at the time the two consortiums that backed the competing technologies each wanted exclusivity and offered steep discounts on replication costs. This made a single-format deal too compelling to ignore. But Hazel was the boss, and she reserved her right to veto any decision of Janique's that she didn't agree with. Chris wisely stayed out of their arguments.
   Her decision left Janique fuming, and was the first in a growing rift that made her determined to break out on her own. Hazel seemed to make one bad decision after another, beginning with her refusal to lift a finger to help Tokio. Janique initially accepted Chris's explanation regarding her unwillingness to fund his operation and a motion for a new trial because he whole-heartedly believed it himself. She soon realized it was a front. It was a rare occasion when she didn't immediately share her thoughts and feelings with him, but this was one of them. She needed more than an inkling, in this case.
   Her first real clue came when Hazel underreported the income from Cherry Blossoms by twenty thousand dollars. Janique never wrote anything down so as to not make her suspicious, but she had total recall when it came to figures. She decided to investigate the accounting firm on her own.

Chapter 16 - Pageburner
   Janique arrived at the unlikely offices of Goldman, Chang, and Schwartz on a Friday afternoon at nearly two o'clock, relying in part on the fact that everyone would be anxious to leave early for the weekend. The success of her first major film had helped her to convince Hazel to reinvest some of the profits into becoming a full-fledged production company. As a result, Ultimate Hustle Japan now boasted a wardrobe and prop department. She wore her hair pinned up, with horn-rimmed glasses, a smart skirt set, and a CSI-style white lab coat.
   At the front desk, in a model of true excess, were two receptionists, one Asian and a Caucasian with vaguely Israeli features. Janique hadn't done reconnaissance for this mission, as she felt the spontaneity worked in her favor. She had prepared for a Japanese receptionist, and so walked up to the Asian instead of the easier to handle Jewess.
   "Konnichiwa. Watashi wa Paige Burner, S.E.C. desu," she said, flashing her bona fides.
   The delicate Japanese girl blushed, flustered by the slightest intrusion of the unknown. She directed "Ms. Burner," to her English-speaking companion. Janique relaxed and fell into her role, relishing the game of cat- and-mouse. She bowed slightly out of habit and repeated her lines in English when it became apparent that the white girl hadn't even been listening the first time around.
   "Hi, I'm special investigator, Paige Burner, with the American Securities and Exchange Commission. I'd like to talk to someone in charge about an investigation we're conducting."
   The girl looked alarmed for an instant and then regained her composure. Israeli for sure, Janique thought. She enjoyed her olive-toned skin and exotic face and made a note to do at least one movie with Israeli women fresh from their mandatory two-year stint in the military.
   "I'm afraid there's no one here that can help you," the girl said, shrugging and smiling sheepishly. A contrived act, Janique surmised.
   "Then I suggest you get on the phone and get someone over here who can," bad cop Janique said. Then she leaned over, tilted her head sideways and put her hand on the willowy but muscular girl's shoulder. "It's okay," good cop Janique said, "Your accounting firm isn't in any trouble."
   Whether it was the words she spoke or her touch, or both, Janique was unsure, but the girl was visibly relieved. And did she feel a spark of

electricity when she touched her? She felt a bit flushed as well.
   "Oh, in that case, I'm authorized to help you," the girl said with a genuine smile. Her eyes now sparkled.
   "Thank you so much... I'm sorry. You know my name, but I don't know yours."
"Yvette," she said. "Yvette Kohan."
   Janique had to smile at this. "I thought you had a faint accent. Israeli, right?"
   "Actually," the girl said, "I'm a Hollywood yenta. I'm just interning to make my father happy. And he's doing it to make my mother happy..."
"But you're so muscular," Janique said.
   "I'm an actress," the girl said. "Or at least I want to be. Gotta stay in shape."
   "Well, you look great," Janique told her in all sincerity. She glanced over at the other receptionist, who quickly turned away in an effort to disguise the fact that she was following the exchange intently, despite the language barrier. The lesbian scene was practically non-existent in Japan.
   "We should work out together some time," the girl said. "You're pretty trim, yourself."
   Now it was Janique's turn to blush. "I'd like that," she said, smiling her captivating smile. "Hey!" she said with mock sternness, "You're not attempting to bribe an agent of the S.E.C. with sexual favors, are you?"
   "No ma'am," the girl said earnestly, suddenly feeling the balance of power shift hard in Janique's favor.
   "That's too bad," Special Investigator Burner said without a hint of amusement. "Well, let's see what you have... I'm looking into a firm named Ultimate Hustle Japan, LLC., owned by a Mr. Tokio Jones."
"Tokyo?" Yvette asked a little confused.
   "Tee-oh-kay-eye-oh," Janique said, "Although I suspect it may be an alias. Better look it up by company name first." She stepped around the corner of the curved desk and leaned over toward the amber monitor with interest, her breast lightly brushing against the girl's bare shoulder.
   Yvette clattered away at her keyboard for a moment, and said, "Oh, here it is. Tokio Jones, Chief Executive Officer, just as you said. Hazel Minx, President." She scribbled the file number down on a scrap of pink paper. "Walk this way."

   Shake it, don't break it, Janique couldn't help but think, somewhat mesmerized by the girl's swaying bottom and grabbable hips. She led her through a door into a back corridor, and past a few offices. True to her word, they seemed to be empty until Monday. A non-descript door marked "Records" led into a small room with a vaulted ceiling, the walls lined with hanging folders. The racks were some fourteen feet high, and there didn't seem to be space for even one more folder.
   Yvette consulted her scrap of paper briefly, and then wheeled a ladder over to the appropriate section. She had to climb to the top and then stretch to reach the file in question. As she did, Janique couldn't help but glance at her firm young ass under her tight silk skirt. She wore plain white panties, and they were visibly wet.

Chapter 17 - Dinner is Served
"Yum," Janique thought, and the girl turned around. "I'm sorry, did you say something?" she asked. "No, sorry."
She came down with a legal folder that seemed suspiciously thin. "Is that it?" Janique asked, a little disappointed.
   "Oh, well, this is just P and L and the records from the last quarter. The rest are archived. Otherwise we'd be digging through a warehouse full of folders."
   Janique almost played dumb and said "P and L?" before remembering that she was playing a Securities and Exchange Commission special agent.
   "The profit and loss statement is probably a little vague for what we need, but the last quarter's records would be most helpful. It's primarily the last month we're concerned with."
   "Well, you can examine them here, or we can go somewhere more comfortable," Yvette said.
   She handed the folder to Janique, and before she released it, Janique said, "You do realize this is an informal inquiry, and you're not obligated to allow me to view these files without a warrant, right?"
   Yvette smiled and forced it into Janique's hand. "Of course, Paige," she said, suddenly on intimate terms. "This isn't my first rodeo." She pronounced rodeo "ro-day-oh". "But we have nothing to hide, here. That's something my father drilled into my head early on: don't do anything wrong, and you can get away with murder."
   Without a word, acting on Janique's unspoken desire, Yvette led her to a plush office, oak paneled, which was how you expressed extreme wealth in Japan, wood being such a rare commodity. She placed the folder on a desk blotter in a pool of light and excused herself without further communication. Janique sat in the padded leather chair and soaked in the atmosphere for a moment. It reminded her of her own father's study, and she felt the pain of loss and remembrance, even though both her parents were still alive and looked to remain that way indefinitely.
   Finally, she shook off those feelings and opened the folder before her. The first thing that leapt out at her from the profit and loss statement was a war chest of eight point nine million dollars. Hazel was honest in one regard: her salary was listed at one dollar per year. After taxes, she made

sixty-eight cents. Of course, her expenses amounted to more than ten thousand a month, so she was far from starving.
   It wasn't long before Janique found what she was looking for: twenty thousand transferred to a numbered Swiss bank account, with no further explanation given. The timing exactly coincided with the income from the film.
"Oh, you fucking bitch," she said under her breath.
   Just then, Yvette opened the door and stuck her head in. Janique closed the folder and approached her as she spoke.
   "Suki's gone and the doors are locked. Are you done? Want something to eat?"
   "I think you know the answer to that one," she said and pulled her to the floor.
   Janique left the accounting firm with Yvette firmly in her pocket. She didn't feel bad about using her, despite their newfound connection. Janique was always on the side of good. She did promise to come back and see her, and Yvette's gratitude was evident. And later, Janique thought, I'll make you an actress, too.

Chapter 18 - Hello Yuki
   Janique was walking a few blocks to think and then catch a cab, trying to decide how best to deal with Hazel, when she had a flash of inspiration. Poetic justice, she thought, is a dish best served cold.
   She pondered the specifics and then, as luck would have it, the answer appeared before her. On the sidewalk, directly in her path, was a most adorable little Japanese girl. She stopped in her tracks instead of simply walking around her, partly because she was transfixed by the girl's exquisite beauty.
   She was skipping rope and staring directly at Janique. The jump rope had colored lights throughout it that flashed in various patterns as it revolved around her. The effect was mesmerizing. Her hair was pulled into two short pigtails with no real attempt at neatness, held in place by Hello Kitty barrettes, and she had a Charms Blow Pop in her mouth.
   Janique would have simply acknowledged her with a smile and moved on, but the rotating, strobing jump rope clearly flashed the word "Hello" at her in the air. It was startling enough to spur her into action.
   "Konnichiwa," Janique began, relying on what little conversational Japanese she had acquired thus far. She really had no idea how to proceed, or why she had to talk to her.
"Hel-lo," the girl said in a Valley Girl accent. "I speak English." Janique felt both relieved and foolish.
"Hi," she said, "I'm Janique."
   "I know," the girl replied, "I've seen your work. Hot stuff." She pulled at her collar to emphasize her assessment. "I'm Yuki."
   "You saw Cherry Blossoms?" Janique asked, incredulously, starting to blush.
   "Of course," Yuki said, "My dad's a big sarariman. He gets all the new Hong Kong boots. Your movie has a dreamlike quality that at times calls to mind the work of Kurosawa."
"Who?" Janique had to ask.
   "Japanese director Akira Kurosawa. Remember his name, he's going to be big. You should study his techniques. Also, find this guy: Yoichiro Kawaguchi. He does CGI."
"He does what?"
"Computer graphic imagery. Like, animated video from a computer."

   Janique, who knew nothing of computers apart from green and amber screens at banks and offices, absorbed this information with silent interest.
   "Did you intentionally rip off author Kajii Motojiro's 'Patriotism' for Cherry Blossoms, like George Lucas did with The Seven Samurai and The Hidden Fortress or was it mere happenstance?" she asked Janique.
"Oh. I never read that story. Really."
   "Hmm," Yuki said, ponderingly. "Coincidence, I guess. He also wrote a story called 'Under the Cherry Trees'. We even have a saying derived from it, 'Dead bodies are buried under the sakura!' That means cherry tree."
"Now that is weird." Janique paused. You're pretty..." "And precocious," Yuki said, completing her thought. "Actually, I was going to say 'pretty precocious'."
   "But don't you think I'm pretty?" the girl asked, leading her on. She curtsied, lifting the hem of her schoolgirl outfit.
"Well, of course I do, Yuki," she said politely.
   "You're terminally pretty," she told Janique, and gooseflesh rose on her arms. "Want to do me?"
"What?" Janique gasped.
   "Well, I know you do," she said. "Just about everyone does, except the ladyboys, and they want to be me. What I'm saying is that it's okay. Every once in a while, I meet a hot gaijin couple who aren't scared and I make their dreams come true."
Janique stared at her in amazement, unable to think of anything else. "But not The Beast. He's scary rough."
"He can be really sweet," Janique said, "in private." "I trust you, Janique," the girl said.
"Sorry, Yuki. I'm not there yet."
   "Bawk bawk," the girl said, flapping her arms like a chicken and laughing.
   "Watch it, little girl. You're not too big for a spanking." Janique said, grinning.
"Promises, promises," Yuki told her.
   "Look, Yuki. I'm going to give you my card. Give me a call sometime. I think you'd make a good recruiter and creative consultant."
"Psh," she said, "I'm going to be the biggest porn star in Asia." "Please wait until you're twenty-one," Janique urged her. "For me?"

   Yuki issued a mock sigh, pretending to be exasperated. "I'm old enough now! Okay, Janique. But only because you asked me."
   Janique leaned down to hand her a business card, and Yuki snatched it from her, simultaneously planting a kiss on her cheek.
"Yum," the girl said.


Back at their apartment, Janique relayed her findings to Chris. "She's totally fucking Tokio," Janique said, furious.
   "Are you sure?" he asked her. Before the words were out of his mouth, he felt foolish. Janique's angry glare was her only reply.
"Okay," he said. "Let's handle it. Any ideas?"
   "A few," Janique told him, "And I have an insider at the accounting firm."
"So, when do we do it?"
   "After she pays for his operation. Then I want that bitch's head," she said coldly.

Chapter 19 - Gangsta Shit
   The next few weeks were uneventful. Janique was now bringing in more than a hundred thousand a week on her own. And word had spread regarding Chris's head-busting prowess, so he really didn't have to do much of that anymore. She was at first a little uneasy about the women requesting his services, but he was understanding, and asked her to accompany him. If the women wouldn't allow her to stay or participate, he politely returned their money and left. But this only happened a few times. After that, word spread among the scenesters that you could have both of them for Chris's relatively low asking price of four thousand an hour. When Janique realized that she was cutting into her own profits, she stopped going with him on jobs.
   Because she was ready to go home. Japan was fun, and the women were sweet and beautiful, but America had all that and more. Plus, she was really tired of playing second fiddle to Hazel, whom she decided wasn't worthy of shining her shoes, much less bossing her around. Chris and Janique spent their downtime planning what would be their second and final Japanese movie release. It was far more ambitious than Cherry Blossoms and required an even steeper investment.


Hazel and Janique were discussing financial arrangements over tea.
Chris pretended to read the paper, which was in Japanese.
   "Eighty thousand dollars in licensing fees?" Hazel said, "Bitch, you crazy."
   Chris looked over his paper at the back of her head, trying to decide who was crazier: Janique, or someone who would talk to her like that. He withheld judgment.
   "It's not licensing fees as such," Janique decreed, "It's gangsta shit. You understand gangsta shit, right, Hazel? At least you used to."
Janique had found her weak spot and was driving the point home.
   "Oh, oh," Hazel said, "Now you gon' tell ME 'bout gangster shit?" She let out a chuckle.

   "Come on, Hazey," Janique said, knowing full well that she absolutely hated being called that. "White people are the original gangsters. We taught y'all how to thug."
   Now Chris eyed Janique. She was definitely tipping the crazy scales in her favor.
"Sheeit," Hazel said, nearly spitting the word at her.
   "In fact," Janique continued, "We're SO gangsta, y'all only learned part of the game. By design. We held back the good shit."
   "What choo mean?" Hazel asked, sensing some impending racial disharmony.
   "I mean the big picture hustle ain't for y'all. Multi-national corporations, advanced medicine, space travel, international banking. You people just get the crumbs."
"You people?" Hazel said.
"Yeah," Janique said, "You. People."
   Haze pushed her chair back. Chris could tell she was ready to get up and start swinging, and he was sure Janique knew that as well. Which was fine, he knew she could hold her own in any given situation. But this wasn't in the script.
   "In fact," Janique continued, "The gangsta shit we put y'all on, guns, dope, and pimpin', that's what we use to keep y'all down. We got our foot on your necks."
   "Witch!" Hazel said, jumping up. "Enchantress!" she yelled, jabbing her finger at Janique. "You white bitches are evil! Devils!"
Janique resisted the urge to laugh. She was playing right into her hands. "Hazel, Hazel," Janique said. "Calm down, girlfriend." She put her hand
on Hazel's, which was gripping the table furiously. "They did it to us, too." "The fuck they did, you rich-ass white bitch!" Hazel yelled.
   "My family has a little money, Haze, but not on that level. We pay taxes just like y'all do. In fact," she continued, "My folks don't eat Kobe beef five nights a week, and guzzle Dom Perignon and top-shelf sak� like its going out of style, either. That's you."
Hazel regained her composure and sat back down. "And that's why we're here, right? Fuck America."
   "Janique, you one crazy cunt, I'll give you that." She meant it derisively, but there was strong admiration in her voice, all the same.
"Have I steered you wrong yet?" Janique asked.

"No."
"And who's your baddest bitch?" "You are, Jojo."
"Biggest moneymaker of all time?"
Hazel sighed. "A'ight, damn. You don't need to beat me up with it." Janique treated her to a smile.
"It's comin' out of yo' money," Hazel said.
   She leapt up and hugged her, kissing her cheek, and said, "I wouldn't have it any other way."
Only Chris saw the murderous fury in Janique's eyes.


   Eighty thousand dollars went to the Yakuza. Chris hated dealing with them, even via proxy, but it was an extremely lucrative investment. The license they were after would have cost hundreds of thousands, if not more, otherwise. The Yaks wouldn't even deal with gaijin, forcing him to use a liaison. Their word was good, at least. It was one detail they didn't have to worry about, at any rate. And without the licensing, there would be no film.

Chapter 20 - Isle of Lucy
   Right on schedule, Yuki called for Janique, and they met for lunch at Lucy's, a trendy American eatery.
"So tell me about this computer graphics guy," Janique said.
   Yuki sucked down the rest of her Coke and shook the empty glass at the waitress for a refill. The waitresses were all Japanese, but for whatever reason they looked, dressed, and acted like Lucille Ball. Toni Basil's "Hey Mickey" looped continuously in the background, which the girls occasionally chimed in with as, "Hey Ricky!" At random moments, one might drop a tray or otherwise engage in hysterics. There was a vat of grapes in one corner of the room, and a conveyor of bon-bons, and they also came into play from time to time. But there was no Ricky, Fred, or Ethel. Everyone except the servers were average Japanese shift workers.
"I love this place," Yuki said. "It's fully retarded." "Focus, Yuki." Janique reminded her. "CGI?"
   "Common gateway interface," she said. "No, wait. That's twenty years from now."
"Where are you from, really?"
   "I come from France," Yuki said in an inhuman voice. "Let us consume mass quantities."
"Come on, Jane," Janique said, playing along, "Or it's curtains for you." "Beef curtains for days," Yuki said.
"Stop it," Janique said.
   "Computer graphic imaging is the process of generating images and video through pixels - picture element control."
"Pixels? Like pixies?" Janique asked slyly.
   "Sure. But we also use sprites, at times. A pixel is the smallest point that can be generated by a video output device. The images on your TV are composed of pixels. Human eyesight can be approximated by a dots-per- inch of ninety-six hundred by ninety-six hundred, and a color depth of sixteen point seven million colors. Need I go on?"
   "Okay, I get it," Janique said. "You're definitely going to be a huge asset on this project. Tell me about Mr. Kawaguchi."
   "Ugh," Yuki said, "He's a dreamboat. While most people are doing geometric shapes and sterile landscapes, he creates these wonderfully organic and fluid images. Alien and abstract, but also beautiful and haunting."

   "That sounds really nice, Yuki, but arty. The wrong sort of arty for this project. It's going to be sort of neo-realist."
"I really need to know more," Yuki said.
"No, you don't," Janique said. "Curiosity killed the cat." "With a shonen knife," Yuki said cryptically.
   "Well," Janique said, "I've got some cash set aside for special effects, and this movie is definitely going to need them."
"Save it. I've got something better."


   Meanwhile, Chris was working on the script. He was having a small creative block due, he thought, to a lack of drugs. No one would sell him any weed. Somehow, even the Yaks knew when he sent an intermediary in an effort to score some. And it wasn't exactly common, there. Not that he had to have it to write, but he enjoyed it more. Each word seemed to slowly tumble out of eternity and fall into place on the page when he was smoking. All he had to do was scrawl on a notepad or composition book as it happened. He didn't want writing to ever seem like work, as he'd be doing it for the rest of their lives. Beer and cigarettes weren't doing it for him, however.
   On a whim, he went to the Kroger's. He and Janique felt comforted visiting there. It was like a little piece of home came with them to Japan. He wandered the aisles, avoiding the stares of the natives, who regarded him as some sort of alien invader or evil spirit. Those in the know as to who he was blushed in his presence, hiding behind their hands. For whatever reason, only women seemed to recognize him. If the men did, they played it cool.
   He looked at the leashes, collars, and pet toys, searching for something new for his love, and ended up in the pharmacy. He had almost walked through that section when his eyes fell upon the Robitussin gel-caps. DXM. He had heard about it before. It was a class of drugs known as disassociatives. He considered his weight and grabbed two twenty packs. Chris had never bothered to learn the yen-to-dollar conversion rates, and so he just threw small denomination bills at the cashier until they implored

him to stop. He regularly paid a hundred dollars for Marlboros, and the DXM ended up costing him two fifty.
   Outside of the store, he ate all forty caps, and neatly disposed of the packages, folding them flat to save space, as his grandmother had taught him. It was something he did to honor her memory, but space really was at a premium in Japan, leading to things like square watermelons. He stood and smoked while he waited for it to kick in. When he realized he was smoking his third cigarette in a row, and lovingly caressing the stainless steel rim of the wastebasket, Chris knew he was most high.
   He set about on walking home, but took a circuitous route. He craned his neck upward, taking in the size of the skyscrapers that towered above him. On the ground, he towered over the citizens of Tokyo. Along the way, he passed the detritus of a civilization growing up too fast. Since elbowroom was so limited in Japan, people simply threw away "old" furniture and television sets. There was enough quality merchandise waiting for the garbage trucks that Chris could have opened a furniture and appliance store.
   When he turned the corner and saw the full moon blazing down at him, he knew he'd seen enough. He made his way back to the apartment, which was thankfully empty. When Janique was there, he only wanted to hold her, make love to her, feed her, or entertain her. Chris sat down at his desk and felt himself rise out of his body. He spent the rest of the evening hovering in the air, watching himself write his second script.

Chapter 21 - Pink Ninjas
   Yuki insisted Janique pick her up in a black Mercedes sedan at exactly midnight.
"Why?" she had asked her.
"Yours is not to question why," Yuki said, "Yours is just 'do me or die'." "Don't you ever stop thinking about sex, Yuki?"
"Don't worry, I won't," she replied, smiling.
   Janique sighed. And people said she was over-sexed. Yuki's prediction about being the biggest porn star in Asia had a decent chance of coming true.
"So, why didn't you want to have someone drive us?"
   Janique used a chauffeur on long distance runs around Tokyo due to the complexity of the city and her inability to read the street signs.
"Three can keep a secret if two are dead," Yuki said sweetly.
   Janique elected to keep driving and say nothing, occasionally receiving brief instructions as to where she should turn. She was surprised when the sprawl of Tokyo gave way to lush, green hills. After thirty minutes of countryside, Yuki had her kill the headlights and turn down a deserted lane.
"Park," Yuki said.
   Janique ordinarily bristled at the very idea of taking orders from someone other than Chris, and he only gave them because she demanded it of him. But Yuki was wise beyond her years, and this was her turf, besides. The entire caper was her doing. When she demanded more information from her, Yuki reminded her of the first time she asked for more info and was denied.
   "Besides," Yuki said, "It's more fun not knowing. Your adrenaline will be up. But don't hurt him, okay?"
"Don't worry," was all she could say to that.
   They got out and went to the trunk, where Yuki had placed a large duffel bag.
"Put this on," she said, handing Janique a black outfit. "Ninja outfits? Really?" Janique asked.
   Yuki smiled. "I even got us ninja socks. I was going to get pink gear instead of black, but we do need the element of surprise. I can't get arrested again."
"Pink ninjas would be pretty surprising, I'd say," Janique told her. "True, but there may be dogs."

   "Yum," Janique said, and Yuki shot her a surprised look. "We'll talk about that later."
   After they had both dressed, Yuki produced a pair of pointed metal sticks with curved guards on the handles. She struck a pose for Janique, demonstrating the proper offensive stance for a sai, the weapon in question.
"What's that? It looks like my tattoo." "A sai. I stole it from Sho Kosugi." "Who?"
"Forget it."
"I thought we weren't going to hurt him?" Janique asked.
   "We're not," Yuki said. "But he doesn't know that. And we may need to hurt someone else. Who knows? All I care about is the fact that Papa-San will cut me off if I get busted."
"Don't I get a weapon?"
   "Ah, but of course." She removed the last item from the duffel bag, a shining katana with a gold inlayed mother of pearl handle. "It was my great grandfather's," she said quietly. "Be careful. It likes blood."
"Yuki, are you sure you want me to carry this?"
   She bowed, and laid the blade across her arm handle first. "You are my Joan of Arc, Janique. Lead me."
Both were awash in emotion.
   "Our costumes need one final tweak," Janique said. She pulled on Yuki's left nipple and then released it, holding the fabric between her fingers and slicing a hole in it, exposing her areola. She repeated this action on the other breast, and then brought the blade down between Yuki's legs.
   She pressed the blunt end against her clit and then cut a slit in the crotch with a downward motion.
"Ooh," Yuki said. "What took you so long?"
   "This is just to sweeten the deal for him," Janique said, and licked the tip of the blade. "Yep," she said, "That's pretty sweet."
"My turn!" Yuki said, reaching for the sword.
   "Nope," Janique told her. "If you do that to me, we'll never even make it inside."
Yuki frowned.
"Soon, Yook. I promise."
She brightened at the prospect.

Chapter 22 - Labyrinth's Animator
   They left the Mercedes where it was parked and walked the last quarter mile. The lights were off, save for the study. They peered in and found their target asleep in a chair with a keyboard still in his lap.
"Is there anyone else inside?"
"Single," Yuki said, "He's married to his work."
   They walked to the front door and Janique tried the knob, it was unlocked.
"Amateur," Janique said.
"Hey. This is the Japanese countryside. Not America."
   Janique nodded in silence, duly reproached, and they stepped inside. Both had great fun as they made their way through the unlit entryway and living room. They crept, rolled, and hid behind furniture. Unfortunately, the study was only thirty feet from the entrance, so they could only play for so long before they had to get serious.
   "Psst," Yuki said into the unsuspecting ear of her sleeping victim. He opened his eyes to see Janique's katana in his face, and her eyes, which had the hard look of blue-green steel.
   Yoichiro immediately yelled. At first in fright, startled from his pleasant dreams, and then in righteous indignation. He started to get up from his chair, and Janique shoved him hard in the chest, forcing him back down.
"Chill him out, Yook. I don't want to have to cut him." Yuki said a few words in Japanese, and he relaxed. "What did you say, Yuki?" Janique asked her.
"That you were about to cut his fucking head off."
   Janique's brow crinkled for a moment. She tossed the sword over her shoulder onto the couch and then removed her hood. Her hair tumbled out like liquid fire. Mr. Kawaguchi's eyes grew wide. She motioned at Yuki, who was slightly behind him on his right, covering him. Unlike Janique, she did not relinquish her weapon, instead tucking it into the back of her outfit.
Janique began: "We've come to present you an offer, honorable Mr.
Kawaguchi." Then she knelt in front of him, slightly to his left.
   Yuki repeated the line in Japanese, and did the same, positioning herself to his right.
   "A very lucrative, sensual offer," Janique said sliding her hand up his leg to his crotch.
Yuki repeated the line and the motion, and Yoichiro stiffened.

   "We need advanced computer graphics," Janique said, pulling his zipper down.
Yuki translated, and his eyebrow shot up, intrigued.
   "You're speaking his language," Yuki said, reading him. "He loves harmony, computers, and women."
"Hopefully not in that order, though."
   "In that order. Look," Yuki said, and hit the shift key on the keyboard, which he clutched to his chest like a shield.
   On the screen was a stunningly intricate model of Janique, arms by her side, slowly rotating.
"He's apparently a fan," Yuki said, laughing.
   Janique reeled with disbelief. Unreality struck her in waves. She had gone from real to celluloid to digital and back again. It was as if she had stepped out of Yoichiro's computer screen and into his study. His eyes remained calm, but his hands were shaking like an epileptic with Parkinson's.
Mr. Kawaguchi began to speak, and Yuki translated. "My goddess, it is a dream. You cannot be real."
Janique pulled out his stiffening cock and lightly kissed the head.
   Instantly, he started coming, and continued to do so for nearly ten seconds. Janique's face was coated, and her lips were pasted shut. Greedy little Yuki pounced, at first taking the length of him in her mouth, then sucking his cockhead clean with a force that caused his hands to dig into the arms of his chair.
   "Nature abhors a vacuum," she told Janique, and then kissed her lips for the first time ever. She fell upon her with hunger, Yoichiro's semen filling both their mouths. Eventually, they had to swallow or drown. When they came up for air, Yuki licked Janique's face clean as though she were a kitten.
"Hello, kitty."
   "No," Yuki said, smacking her lips and licking her fingers clean. "Hello Kitty has no mouth..."
Yoichiro cleared his throat, reminding them both that he was still there.
His erect cock waved at them.
   "Fill him in on the details, you little devil," Janique said, taking him back in her mouth.

   "Ultimate Hustle Japan requires your services," Yuki began. In the first of a long line of passive-aggressive maneuvers designed to inflame Janique, Yuki pushed Janique's head all the way down until Yoichiro's pubic hair tickled the inside of her nose. She held it there as she spoke.
   "We need advanced computer graphics, and we want you to work for us," Yuki began. Yoichiro nodded emphatically. "It will require seamless integration of CGI and video, and a generous portion of imagination."
   He gasped, primarily from Janique's ministrations, but also because of the chance to work on an interesting new project.
   "We can offer you a new girl every day," she continued. "Plus unlimited access to me and the goddess here," Yuki said, nodding down at Janique.
   Unaware	of	her	advanced	breathing	techniques,	Yuki	suddenly panicked, realizing she'd been suffocating her for more than a minute. She removed her hand, expecting Janique to rise, gasping for air. When she didn't, Yuki grabbed a fistful of her hair and yanked upward. But Janique had to establish the pecking order once and for all. When Yuki pulled, Janique bit down. Yoichiro slapped Yuki's face, knocking her to the ground.
   He ejaculated, and Janique pulled back a bit to receive this second load on her tongue.
She leaned over the prostrate Yuki and spat the whole of it in her face. "You might be Godzilla, but I'm King Kong, bitch," she said.
   Janique smiled and extended her hand, pulling Yuki back up to face her. There was little else they could do but kiss, at that point. Then she returned the previous favor, licking Yuki's face clean, and splitting the load with her.
"Yook, I think this is the start of a beautiful relationship." Yuki nodded. "I think I'm ready to meet The Beast," she said. "As soon as he's done with the script," Janique promised.
   Yoichiro was clattering away at his keyboard nervously, hoping they wouldn't refocus on him once again.
"What sort of hardware do you need?" Yuki asked him.
   "Cray Supercomputer," he said in English. He had obviously been thinking about this for some time.
   "You speak English?" Janique asked him, and he looked at her quizzically. Yuki translated, and he shook his head no, uttering a short Japanese phrase.
   "No," Yuki said, "That's the brand name. It's the same in English or Japanese."

   "So, you liked Cherry Blossoms?" Janique asked him via Yuki. She turned an even paler shade of white at his reply.
"He has no idea what you're talking about."
Janique's mind struggled to process this information and could not. "Let's get out of here, she said. "Tell him we'll be in touch."

Chapter 23 - Gojira's Revenge
   Chris had somehow managed to cram three nights into one. When Janique arrived at dawn, having spent several delicious hours training Yuki in the marital arts, she saw him sitting at his desk with the completed script. He didn't react when she walked in, and she assumed he was sleeping sitting up. But when she walked over to him, his eyes were open.
"Chris?" she said, a trifle concerned.
   It was only after she gently shook him that he reacted, and even then, there was an initial delay that was somewhat eerie. In fact, if she hadn't spent several hours with Yuki to clear her head after the other odd incident of the evening, she would have been seriously concerned.
"Hey," he said, coming around, "Where's my kiss?"
   They kissed as only Janique and Chris could kiss, and now he was fully awake.
"Rough night at the office?" she asked him.
   "I'm glad you came home when you did," he said, "I was getting lonely floating around up there."
Janique let this uncharacteristically strange comment pass unremarked. "How about you?" he asked, "Rough night at the orifice?"
   "Ooh," she said, "Movie title. Write that down." She sat in his lap and put her arms around his neck, nuzzling and kissing him profusely.
"Yow," he said. "Sushi for breakfast?"
   "Will you stop with the movie titles, already?" she laughed. "If you must know, I spent the last few hours eating, spanking, and fisting a Japanese girl," Janique said, trying to get a rise out of him.
"What, you didn't piss on her?" Chris said, "You're slippin'." "Psh," she said, and put his nose in her hair.
"Ooh, you filthy little slut," he said, and stood up with her in his arms.
He carried her over to the bed.
"Nooo, Chris," she pled, "Mommy's all tired and sore." "Good," he said, "You won't be able to fight back."
   He dropped her on the bed where they made tantric love for an hour, and then fell asleep in each other's arms.
She never could tell him no...



   That afternoon, Chris woke before her, as was their routine. He brought her coffee, a cigarette, and two bagels slathered in strawberry cream cheese. She was so happy to wake up next him, she shed tears of joy, which she didn't bother to wipe away.
"I didn't have any flowers handy, so I give you this offering instead." He handed her the script for Gojira's Revenge.
"Oh, Chris," she said, "You're perfect!" "We're perfect," he corrected her.
"Forever," she said, munching a bagel. "Read it to me!"
   Janique was like a little girl, begging her father for a bedtime story. What man could resist that? He sat and read the entire one hundred and eleven pages of the script start to finish, an act that took nearly two hours. When he was done, Janique held up the notepad she used to write down suggested changes and story ideas. It was blank.
"Don't change a word of it," she said

Chapter 24 - Masterpiece
   Gojira's Revenge was at the same time both more subtle and more over- the-top than Cherry Blossoms. Gojira was of course the proper Japanese name for Godzilla, which is where the bulk of the licensing efforts by the Yakuza went. By using the Japanese word, they avoided the bigger issue of licensing "Godzilla", which even the Yaks couldn't achieve on a mere eighty thousand dollars' worth of strong-arming.
   It was more bombastic because it was going to be a true B-Movie. The script deliberately called for unrealistic cardboard buildings and helicopters suspended by visible wires, cheesy explosions, and fake blood. At the same time, the dialogue and storyline wove a complex treatise on modern life contrasted with an "the old ways are best" sensibility. At first glance, it was escapist trash, but the viewer was soon rewarded with a fabulous series of insights, ranging from an exploration of Shinto's many facets and the Tao, to World War 2 and the atomic bomb, which had always laid at the heart of all Godzilla movies.
   Chris wanted the Ultraman license as well, but Janique gently pointed out that she would be Ultrawoman anyway and that they could save on production costs by simply varying her outfit's design and its color scheme slightly. The real kicker was that there was no sex or nudity for the entire first hour of the film. The remaining thirty minutes would be an epic battle and sex scene between Yuki's Gojira and Janique's Ultrawoman character.
   It marked the beginning of her movement to use sex and porn as educational tools in an effort to remake the world as a whole.


Janique phoned Yuki to check their progress. "He-whoa" Yuki said.
   "Yuki! Don't talk with your mouth full. It is undignified and unladylike."
   "That's because I'm a little whore, Mommy," Yuki teased. She had taken to calling her mommy full-time because it was the nastiest thing she could think of.

Janique always one-upped her, however.
"Of course you are, shit-tits. How's mommy's little pig?" "Oink, oink," Yuki said, and then grunted.
"Talk to me, toilet," Janique commanded.
   "Things are going well, here, Mommy. The Gojira model is some forty percent complete. There is more sculpting to do, and the skeletal system isn't in place yet. Beyond that, there's texturing and shading."
   "Good girl! You're already ahead of schedule. Mommy's going to have to beat the shit out of you when we get home tonight."
   "And can Daddy rape me, Mommy? Pleeease?" she pleaded. "You promised."
   "The script's not done yet, Angelsoft," Janique lied. "But you can watch mommy fuck him all night long if you're a good little girl."
"You're the best mommy ever," Yuki said.
"And you're the best little girl. Are you and your playmate letting Mr.
Yamaguchi get his work done?" It was already established that they were. "Oh, yes, Mommy," she said. "He's letting me play with his Wang. I'm
doing all of the 2D scanning, and he's teaching me to blow them up into 3D. It's very thrilling."
   "You're a smart little toilet, Yuki. I may have to promote you to pillow someday."
"Silly, Mommy," Yuki said, "A toilet can't be a pillow." "It can if you drink enough, sweetheart," Janique said.
   "But, Mommy," Yuki said in mock seriousness, "Today's girl is so, so nasty!"
"Annette?"
   "Yes, ma'am," Yuki said, "She won't take care of her master, she just wants to hurt my pussy. She-"
   She heard the beginning of one of Yuki's screaming orgasms, and then the sound of the phone receiver hitting the floor. This was followed by loud squishing noises almost for two minutes, interspersed with Yuki's crying, screaming, and whimpering act. Janique had no choice but join in, her own orgasm finishing just as Yuki got back to business. She continued talking as if nothing had happened.
"Next, I get to work on your suit design, Mommy. I'm so lucky." "So am I, butterfly. I love you..."
"I love you, Mommy. I hafta go now, Annette-"

Janique heard a loud slap.
   "Miss Annette is holding his legs up, Mommy. She says I have to lick his butt. Yuk!"
"You'd better do as you're told, Babybot," Janique said. "I always do, Mommy. I love you."
   Janique hung up the phone. Whatever was happening over there, the film was going great.

Chapter 25 - Janique the Green-Eyed Monster
   Janique decided it was time for a heart-to-heart, eye-to-eye talk with Chris about Yuki.
   "I want to have a sleepover, Daddy," she said, curling up in his lap. She licked the inside of his ear. Sweetears, she called them, and that always made him think of the picture of the kitten in The Guinness Book of World Records that was eating an ear of corn.
   "Whatever my little girl wants," Chris said, "You know that." He touched the end of her nose with his finger, an act that was strangely intimate as well as affectionate.
   "But, Daddy..." she hesitated. "She's a nasty little brat. She's younger than me, prettier than me..."
Chris pulled her head back and shoved a bar of Ivory soap in her mouth. "Angel," he said calmly, "What did Daddy tell you about lying?" "Nuhn nuh duh uh," Janique said.
"Not to do it to me, unless you have to, that's right. Good girl."
   The tension exploded exponentially. She always got delightfully frightened when he used his mock sweet voice. It was scary because she knew he could snap on her in an instant. She liked being scared.
   "Spit," he said, and she let the bar of soap slide out of her mouth into his hand. She licked her lips clean and then swallowed.
   "Thank you, Daddy," she said solemnly, "I'm sorry." Her eyes were downcast.
   "Hey, button," he said, switching gears. Then she knew he wasn't going to erupt on her. She felt warm and safe, and more than a little disappointed.
"Don't you know you're Daddy's little girl?" She shook her head yes, eyes wide.
"The specialest?" She nodded again.
"Daddy's only little girl, made especially for him?"
A tear ran down her face. She stopped trying to respond. "Aren't you perfect? All mine forever?"
   "Oh, Daddy," she cried, collapsing into sobs, arms around his neck. She was squeezing him so hard it was difficult to breathe, much less speak. Janique sensed this and loosened her grip slightly.
"Who loves you more every single day?" he asked her. "You do, Daddy," she replied.

   He raised an eyebrow, which she couldn't see, and cleared his throat slightly.
   "L-logarithmically," she said tentatively. "Did I get it right?" she asked him.
"Of course, my love. Of course."
   Janique brightened. "And I get more beautiful every day," she said, completing the mantra.
   "That's right, sweetheart," he told her, rewarding her with a kiss in the center of her forehead.
   "And guess who made you?" he asked her, adding a new wrinkle to the formula.
"You did, Daddy," she said, looking confused.
   "Angel..." he said, reaching for the soap again. He stopped, realizing he was being unfair. "God made you for me," he whispered in her perfect little ear.
"But, Daddy," she said.
   "Ssshhh," he told her. "No sleepovers until you stop being so scared of Daddy liking someone better. Because that's unpossible. Come on," he said, picking her up, "It's bedtime."
"Yes, Daddy," she said dutifully.

Chapter 26 - Training Session
   Four days and six girls later, an exhausted Yoichiro delivered the CAD files to Janique, which she duplicated on her own as a failsafe and brought to her costume fabricators. They promised a two-week turnaround but were breaking in a new process whereby the costumes would be extruded from liquefied foam rubber directly from the 3D models. The fabbing actually took three weeks, but the results were phenomenal. It was such a success that the company, Trillian Corporation, patented the process and took their stock public shortly thereafter, netting millions.
   Janique took Yuki along on the trip to pick up the costumes, a partial reward for her tireless devotion to the cause. Yuki's other payoff was to occur that Friday. She had an entire weekend set aside for the three of them to become better acquainted under her tutelage. If Yuki was serious about her future career, she'd have to run the gauntlet of Chris and Janique Turner.
"Where are we going?" Yuki asked in her best "I'm a big girl" voice. "Ssh," Janique said, slipping her free right hand into Yuki's panties. All
questions faded from her mind, and after two digital orgasms, Yuki finished the drive with her face in Janique's lap.
When they got inside and saw the costumes, she squealed in delight. "Oh my God!" she said excitedly. "They're awesome!"
   The Gojira suit was perfect in every detail, with a few enhancements. The fins along the back glowed with an orange light, which could be adjusted to cycle or vary in intensity.
   "This analog approach will really cut down on the post-production work," Janique said, taking on the guise of salesperson.
   The angry eyes were blown glass and ceramics with a startlingly life- like appearance.
   "There's a thumbwheel in each hand to make him look in any direction," she continued.
"Why not a single trackball?" Yuki asked.
   "That's a good question, smarty-pants. I toyed with that concept, but you'll find this method offers much more precise control. One pans left and right, the other, up and down. You'll be able to convey a wide range of emotion this way, in a precise manner. Furthermore," she continued, patting Yuki on the head, "the underlying potentiometers are self-centering. When you release the controls, the eyes will snap back to the home position to convey an 'I'm pissed' reaction."

"Mama," Yuki said, sticking her thumb in her mouth.
   Janique smiled, pleased to have met Yuki's approval on a technical level.
   "The material of the suit itself," she said, "has some qualities of the foam rubber of old, but will deform more naturally at the joints, providing a more realistic appearance."
   Janique reached around to the seam hidden beneath the back fins and manipulated a control hidden behind the mouth. "There's a pip inside that-"
"A pip?" Yuki asked. "A nub," Janique said. "A nub?"
"Like a clit," Janique said, becoming exasperated. "Got it," Yuki said.
   "It translates the microvoltages generated by its manipulation into movements of the suit's tongue, allowing for true one to one replication of the wearer's gestures. There's even a reservoir for saliva..."
"You mean-"
"Yep," Janique smiled, "Godzilla's gonna eat my pussy."
Both women laughed as their own pussies simultaneously moistened. "Seriously, patent it." Yuki said.
"And finally, two major changes from the original design."
   Janique moved a chair that had been strategically placed in advance, revealing a textured green lizard cock, fourteen inches long and nearly seven inches in circumference.
   "My God!' Yuki said, falling to her knees and grabbing it with both hands. "I can't get my fingers around it! Way better than the digital version."
   "You'll find it's ribbed and textured for my satisfaction. A larger-scale version of Chris's cock, actually."
"I love Chris so much," Yuki said, half-dreaming.
"Oh, you've never even met him," Janique scolded her.
   But Yuki wasn't listening, as she was busy trying to stuff the monster into her mouth, and gagging roughly.
   "He's going to love you, too," she sighed. "Are you quite done, little girl?"
   Yuki stood, wiping the copious drool from her dimpled chin. "Yes, Mommy," she said solemnly, assuming the proper deferential pose, with her

eyes downcast and hands by her sides.
   She peeked up at Janique, the hint of a smile playing across her lips. Janique rewarded her impudence with an open-handed slap across the face.
   When Yuki got up from the floor, she bowed deeply and said, "Arigato, Mama-San."
   "The pi�ce de r�sistance," Janique said, pulling the tail around to the front, revealing a wicked looking spiked tip. It was lined with ridges, and slowly tapered to a blunt end.
"Gulp," Yuki said.
"Bend over," Janique commanded her.
   She did so, despite the presence of four or five costume shop employees. She knew by now not to ever go against Janique's wishes. With the flourish of a magician's assistant, she flung Yuki's plaid skirt up over her back and ripped her panties off, stuffing them into her mouth. They had quite an act going. Janique spread Yuki's pink, freshly-shaven snatch and spat a huge mouthful into her pulsating young cunthole.
   "Meh moo, mumma," Yuki said, as best she could under the circumstances. She was rewarded with a slap to her ass so fierce that she still bore the handprint days later.
   "I told you not to talk with your mouth full, piglet." Janique said coldly. And with that she shoved the tip of the monster's tail into her with such force that Yuki nearly lost her balance. Against her better judgment, she screamed loudly for several seconds through her gag, her eyes welling with tears.
   Fearing another slap, Yuki cringed slightly. Instead, Janique lovingly passed the back of her hand along the side of her face, and then licked away her tears. Presently, she began to push the dragon's tail deeper and deeper into her labial cavern, until she was dilated nearly six inches, a feat not even Janique thought would be possible by such a petite girl. Yuki gritted her teeth and whimpered, but also pushed back against her mistress's constant pressure. The rubber spikes entered her uterus, and both nearly collapsed from their shared pain and pleasure. Then she reversed course, and began to slowly pull it back out again, repeating the action with increased tempo until the motion was a blur. When the time was right, Janique whispered the word "now" into her ear, and placed a singled manicured fingernail against Yuki's clitoris, point first.

   She began shuddering as Janique bore down with her nail, slowly grinding and twisting back and forth. The poor girl couldn't take any more. He panties fell out of her mouth, and she came with such screaming force that someone actually reached for the phone, seriously concerned that an actual reptilian rape was taking place. Which of course, it was, but that was a private matter between Janique and Yuki, and so the receiver returned to its cradle. When Yuki was done convulsing, screaming, and crying, Janique allowed her to stand upright, but not to wipe the tears and mascara from her tormented face.
   Reflexively, Yuki motioned to lower her skirt, and then realized Janique had neither told her to do or even thought it, and so her hands quickly returned to her sides before she again incurred her mistress's wrath, which was great and terrible.
"Come on, Dookie," Janique said, "Time for your tattoos."
   She nodded at the assistant manager, who nodded back, signifying both that the two costumes would be delivered to her apartment and that no one would breathe a word of what happened. Janique spun about on her heels and headed for the door, with Yuki grabbing the hem of her skirt with her left hand as she had been trained to do and following her, eyes on the ground. Her exposed alabaster cheeks pistoned and swayed provocatively, with Janique's handprint shining upon them like a neon scarlet letter.

Chapter 27 - Dusted
   Chris was having an entirely different sort of day. Having slept off the effects of the DXM, he awoke to find Janique had already embarked on her mission for the day. Nonplussed, he drafted her daily poem and sipped his custom blend of high-test Jamaican roast.

"Every day is Christmas And our birthdays, too

The date never matters As long as it's with you

Stuck together like glue Like DNA, intertwined
My love, you are a track star Running through my mind"

   Not bad, he sniffed. Still, he yearned to break away from simplistic rhyme schemes, and rhymes altogether. Janique usually appreciated his efforts, but he doubted that anyone else ever would. In Chris's mind, he was mired at the Hallmark stage of poetry. Well, as long as she's happy, I'm happy, he thought. It was after he checked in with Hazel that the day got out of control for him.
   The first indication that it wasn't going to be a normal day was the fact that she had a joint in her mouth. As soon as he walked in the door to her office he was assaulted by a most intoxicating aroma.
   "Hey baby," she said, joint dangling provocatively. He watched the cherry bounce as she spoke.
   "Good morning," he said, now an arm's length away from her. "I thought you didn't smoke anymore," he remarked casually.
"I don't," she said, taking another draw. "But it's my birthday."
   He resisted the urge to snatch it out of her mouth, and was rewarded for his patience. She handed it to him, and before he took the first hit, asked her, "Didn't you say you couldn't get any?"
Chris drew in a lungful and passed it back. It had an odd taste to it. "Found 'dis shit in the Caddy's glove box," Hazel said, "Musta been
Tokio's."
She passed it back, and he took another deep draw. "In a pill bottle said 'Clickers'. Ain't that some shit?"
Chris spat the joint out onto the floor, where it continued to smolder. "Aye," Hazel said, and then fell silent again as if nothing had happened. "Hazel, this is weed laced with embalming fluid."
"Whut?" she said, giggling.
   "Shit. I guess you'll be okay as long as you don't smoke any more right now."
   Judging by the faraway look in her eyes, she wouldn't be getting out of her chair for some time. He picked up the lacie and put it out. Upon further consideration, he tossed it into her wastebasket.

   "Here," she said, handing him a slip of paper with an address and a dollar amount on it. He had to admit, even tripping balls, she was handling business.
"Thanks," he said. "Have a nice trip." But she was already gone.

Chapter 28 - Another Pet Shop of Horrors
   He drove to the address in question and received the first red flag. It was a pet store. Even the two hits of sherm couldn't account for the surreal nature of the scene.
"Deja vu all over again," he said.
   Chris checked the slip to verify the address. 321 Taggert, which had struck him as an odd address for Japan, but he couldn't place the name. The dollar amount had changed by an order of magnitude, but Chris assumed he had misread it at first glance. Now he got a serious chill. The amount was now one hundred and eighty-seven thousand dollars.
   In retrospect, he should have turned around and gone home, at least until his head was clear again. Janique would have known what to do. But he was alone. He called out to her in his mind but heard no response and felt nothing. His feet moved of their own accord, and he found himself pushing open the door to the shop and stepping over the threshold. "King's Pets", the sign over the shop read. "And Reptiles!" said a placard that was nailed to the side at a jaunty angle. The entire scene came across as contrived. He could smell the set-up.
   To his great relief, there was only a wizened old woman sitting on a padded bar stool behind the counter, reading the paper. Chris loved the downward flow of cryptic symbols. They seemed more art than a means of conveying information. She acknowledged his presence with a spilt-second flick of her eyes in his direction and then went back to her paper, presumably reading lies, damned lies, and statistics. As much as he wanted to look around the shop, driven by his curiosity regarding the strange feel the day had acquired, it wouldn't serve his current purpose. Instead, he approached the counter and placed the scrap of paper before her.
   "English?" he asked her, wondering how this woman could possibly owe so much money.
   "What want?" she said, sounding more like an immigrant clerk on the night shift at 7-Eleven than a venerable business owner.
"Is this your shop?" he asked her.
   Ordinarily, his jobs didn't go this way. He would usually walk into an establishment, and it would be immediately apparent as to whom he needed to talk to. Likewise, he would be recognized for what he was, if not who he was, and the rest would proceed naturally from there.

   "My shop," she said. It felt more like mimicry than a conversation or dialogue.
   He pointed at the figure on the counter. "I need the money," he said sharply, hoping a strident tone would lend urgency to the proceedings. She looked him in the eyes and placed a black leather satchel on the countertop between them.
"You count," she told him. Clearly, she had expected a visit.
   Chris pulled out a bundle of bills and weighed it in his hand, noting the denomination. He'd been a bagman for so long already that he could count money by weight.
   He estimated the number of stacks in the doctor's bag, and said, "This is two hundred thousand dollars."
"Take," she said. "Interest. So solly."
   Chris was struck by the fact that she could pronounce "R" in one word, but not the other, but he had smoked an extremely perception-altering chemical a short time beforehand and didn't want to get hung up on details.
   "Thanks," he said, tipping an imaginary hat at her, as any proper cowboy should do. When he lifted the bag and turned to leave, she reached under the counter, and Chris felt like a fool.
   By turning the money over to him, she had discharged her debt and obligation. If he was then robbed, it fell upon him to repay. A gate crashed down from the ceiling, barring his exit from either the front door or the display windows. He vowed to never let his guard down again. Even for little old ladies.

Chapter 29 - Roy G. Biv
   A shuriken whizzed by his head and embedded itself in the metal door frame with a lethal "snik". Ouch, he thought. That would probably hurt. He turned to face the source of the projectile, and saw a red ninja rearing back to throw a second star. The look in his eyes said he didn't intend to miss again.
   Chris ducked behind a display of chew toys as the throwing star passed neatly through the space he had previously occupied. He heard the tinkle of glass, and reflexively turned the shop's sign from "Open" to "Closed". He had enough trouble on his hands without some innocent civilian pet lovers being involved. He didn't even want to consider the police or Yaks. A ninja! This would be a true test of skills.
   Especially since all he had on him was an eight-round .45 and the bag of loot. And no speedloader or additional ammo. Chris had barely drawn the pistol from the small of his back when he received a tap on his shoulder. He spun around and brought it up, arm vertical. The edge of the ninja's hand, as hard as penitentiary steel, caught him in the side of the neck. All he had time to do was bend his wrist forward and squeeze the trigger. His world turned black as the ninja's face exploded.
   Hitting the floor brought him back to his senses. He had dropped neither money nor gun. Which was extremely fortunate for him as the red ninja had given way to one dressed in orange. It was swinging nunchacku in a dazzling, hypnotic manner, standing nearly astride him. The obvious move would have been to kick it in the crotch, but Chris knew how that only pissed him off, and had to assume his opponents were similarly disciplined.
   He rolled to the right as the 'chucks hit the concrete floor, causing chips of it to fly in all directions like shrapnel. Clearly, these weren't human opponents or normal weapons. Chris swept its legs out from under it, and its head hit the floor with a sharp cracking sound. The ninja in orange didn't move, much less get up, but he stomped its throat for good measure. It collapsed like a hard-boiled egg, leaving a blood-splatter reminiscent of a Jackson Pollack painting.
   He detected movement out of the corner of his eye, and whirled to see a yellow blur coming at him like a bullet train, twin tonfas spinning like propellers. Chris leapt several feet further than he had thought possible and oriented himself ninety degrees from where he had been. The ninja in

yellow had breasts. He fired off a slug and they both exploded like plastic bags of tomato sauce. Maybe they were human after all, he thought.
   They were also stereotypical and predictable. He knew the next would be green, and that they would attack in turn, never together. It was such a foregone conclusion that he no longer even felt like playing. Chris noticed the weight of the money in his left hand, and traded it with the pistol just to give himself a handicap.
   The predetermined green ninja ran at him and flicked out a keibo, an extendable metal police baton, which locked into place. They made American nightsticks seem like hard salami by comparison.
   At this point, Chris wasn't even trying. He let fly three semi-random shots, and the second put a hole where one's heart ordinarily should be, quarter-sized in the front, silver dollar-sized in back. The red blood and green suit combined to make black splotches. He took a moment to scan for the old woman who, incredibly, continued to read the paper. He knew the blue ninja would be next, and it would have a katana. Yuki's katana, something told him. He filed the information away for later.
   Chris felt it approaching and turned to see it exactly where he knew it would be, in the same stance, brandishing the same sword Janique and Yuki's grandfather had both used. It likes blood, he heard Yuki say. He let his arms drop to his sides. The katana sliced through him diagonally. He felt an indescribably intense burning pain as his spinal cord was severed.
   He looked down, and saw he was completely unharmed. The ninja in blue was as stunned as he was. On a whim, he smashed the bag of money into its crotch, knocking its breath away. Finally, he facepalmed it and shoved it backward, sending it reeling to the floor, where it scrambled to its feet and ran for the back door, presumably to warn the other two. Which was a good thing, because he wasn't too sure what color indigo was, and his ability to see ultraviolet was limited.
   Chris walked over to the old lady, who at last now acknowledged his presence.
"I know what you're thinking, cunt. Was that five shots or six?"
   She stood, put her hands behind her back and lifted her chin, cigarette in her mouth. They both knew what had to happen next.
   "Doesn't matter, Koko. It holds eight shots," he told her, and squeezed off two in rapid succession. Her head exploded like a watermelon. A regular round one.

   Now that he could relax slightly, Chris took a deep breath, picked the still burning Marlboro from the floor and flicked a bit of brains off of the filter. He took a drag and saw a soldier in Viet Nam executing a prisoner of war, the single most iconic image generated by that unfortunate fiasco. He knew that somehow, he didn't just recreate it, but that he actually did it. That he was somehow the prisoner, too. And the gun. And the bullet.
   He shook his head, and the thought disappeared. Time for me to exit, he said to himself. Before he left, he closed his eyes and listened. Now he noticed the barking, meowing, screeching, and hooting of the animals that surrounded him, and then the approach of sirens. Moving quickly, Chris opened all of the cages, smashing the snake terrariums with his boots. He made it to the entrance of the stock room just as Tokyo's finest began to mass at the front door. Whistling "Whistle While You Work" and thinking about Whistler's mother playing whist, Chris propped open the rear entrance with a chair and stepped into the bright mid-morning Tokyo sunlight.
   Some of the animals began to stream out behind him while others hid in shadows waiting to make trouble for the police. As Chris rounded the corner, casually strolling and swinging the sack of cash, he stepped into the pandemonium he had created. The Japanese police, never particularly macho or resourceful, were stymied by the diamond-patterned gate at the front door. As they struggled to lift or open it, hordes of ex-pets scampered between their feet through shattered glass, and he saw a few run from the white mice like girls. He wondered why none of them thought to try the delivery entrance.
   Chris waded through them, giving them a friendly nod as he did so, smiling all the while. It was only after he'd gotten on the road and started driving home that he checked the rearview mirror. He was swamped in gore.
   At the apartment, he quickly threw his clothes into a dumpster and scrubbed himself furiously under a scalding shower. When Janique walked in, Yuki in tow, he was still wearing a towel.
"Hey, you," he said.
   "Hey, honey," Janique said, planting a kiss on his warm lips. "What did you do today?"
"I swore off smoking embalming fluid," he said, smiling. "That's good," she said, "Now drop the towel."

Chris couldn't tell her no, either.

Chapter 30 - Easy Money
   He spent the night adoring Janique and never touched Yuki, or even acknowledged her presence. The next morning, she was allowed to serve them breakfast, having slept curled up under Janique's arm like a teddy bear. She had never been happier.
   Chris kissed Janique goodbye and walked out toward the foyer with the blood-streaked bag of cash.
   "Stop," she said, just as his hand touched the doorknob. He froze in place.
   Janique pulled his pants down roughly and pushed Yuki to her knees behind him, shoving her face into his ass. She licked, sucked, and slurped for all she was worth, delighted to finally know Chris. But each time she tried to touch his balls with her tongue, Janique pulled her head back roughly by her hair, and then pushed it forward again, grinding her mouth against his asshole. Once she was satisfied with her fealty, she held Yuki's head still with both hands, having tapped Chris on the shoulder. He pushed back, crushing her lips, and rubbing up and down against her face. Finally, Janique tapped his shoulder again, and he pulled up his pants and walked out without looking back.
"What do you say, K23?" he heard Janique ask her.
"Do you like my moustache, Mommy?" she asked, hopeful. Janique kissed her with delight.


   Chris entered Hazel's office to find her still fast asleep in the same chair that she had been in when he left. The entire room was trashed beyond belief. All of her records were strewn about the place. There were files on the desk, the floor, the file cabinet. Not as if they had been thrown, but rather as though an animal of limited intelligence had tried to make sense of them and failed.
   He noticed a yellow slip of paper standing out from the rest. It read "King's Pet Shop - $200,000."
Chris stuck it in his pocket and then woke her.

   "Shit," she said, looking around, "Basil E. Frankweiler like a motherfucker."
"Got anything for me?" he asked her.
   "Some chang whore wants you to fuck her tonight," she said, "But my computer seems to be down. Holla at me lata. What's with the bag? You and Johnnie gonna play doctor?"
"Coroner," he said, walking out.
   He walked a few blocks away to the nearest branch of Chase Manhattan Bank, and wired the money to his defense attorneys in the U.S.
   "Drop the charges. - Chris and Janique" was the only message that accompanied it.

Chapter 31 - The Dress
   Chris meandered around the neighborhood for a while. Janique and Yuki executed a costume change and anxiously awaited his immanent return. He walked past a newsstand and was shocked to see yesterday's altercation on the front page of the Rising Sun, Tokyo's trashiest tabloid. Gunman Kills Twelve in Pet Shop Massacre read the headline, in English and Japanese.
"Twelve?" he wondered aloud.
   The article itself was only in Japanese, so the rest remained a mystery to him. He unfolded the paper, and there was a picture of the police gathered at the gate. On one side, exiting the frame, he saw his hand clutching the blood-streaked bag of money. The very bag that was still in his hand. Chris glanced to his left and was unsurprised to see that he had returned to the scene of the crime. He dropped the bag into a wastebasket and attributed it all to a flashback. It was time to go back to the apartment, ready or not. He hoped that they were ready. He really needed to clear his head.


   Back at the apartment, Janique and Yuki were giggling like nervous, expectant brides.
   Chris found his costume change at the door, and so he knew they were ready for action. There was a note from Janique pinned to the shirt: "1. Father of the Bride 2. Father Chris (collar adjusts)."
   It was a new bit for them, and damned if he wasn't more than a little nervous. Sex with Janique was heaven. Sex with Janique and someone else was heaven squared. And from what Janique had told him about Yuki, plus the demo he'd received earlier, it was shaping up to be cubed. He changed in the hallway.
   The entrance to their apartment was in an alcove at one end of the hall, and the Japanese were quite respectful of rights and privacy. Although the society at a glance seemed rigidly conformist, they did allow others their individuality if they so desired it. The Japanese view on such things reflected the Chinese proverb, "The nail that sticks out gets pounded

down". In American terms, "Better you than me". Behavior outside of the norm insured that the others could fly below the radar.
   The ever-thoughtful Janique had even provided a bag to put his old clothes in. It was a large black leather doctor's bag... Inside was a white lab coat, speculum, reflector, tongue depressor, and stethoscope.
   "Dr. Chris, I presume?" the note that accompanied it said. Unable to contain himself any longer, he stuffed his street clothes into the satchel and stepped across the threshold. Yuki stood behind the door in a wedding dress so white it hurt his eyes. Janique had designed it for maximum effect.
   The parts that were there were the stuff little girls' dreams were made of. The veil alone was pure fantasy material. Yuki's coal-black hair was ringed by tiny white roses that intertwined around her head like the sine waves of biorhythms. The lace itself was composed of triangles so small they created a moir� pattern that seemed to shift and pulsate before his eyes. But it didn't stop there.
   It was high and Victorian in style. The same lace covered her neck and shoulders, but Chris could see it was shaded in such a way as to emphasize her femininity and vulnerability. He could scarcely restrain himself from devouring her on the spot. The sleeves were puffed at the shoulders and covered her arms in a diaphanous material that extended all the way down to her hands. The gauntlets were held in place by golden bands around the ring fingers of each. Janique thought of everything.
   Below the shoulders, it really began to deviate from traditional wedding attire. Yuki's perfect little tits were fully exposed, bound with thin white cord that bit into them roughly, leaving them purple and swollen. Her now pierced nipples sported tiny golden bells that tinkled with the slightest motion. At this point, she was literally shivering with anticipation, and so they sounded their delicate chimes continually. Written across the top of her right breast in an ornate script was a single word, "Whore", in bright red ink.
   Chris's eyes continued to pan down slowly, drinking in the fullness of the delicacy Janique had prepared for them both. The skirt ended just above her ankles, revealing shackles that allowed only baby steps, and then impossibly tall white high-heeled pumps. Chris looked at them closely and saw they were actually made of etched glass.
   There was a heart-shaped cutout that exposed her shimmering wet pussy, and Chris knew the back of the dress was done in a similar fashion.

The fabric of the dress body looked like wedding cake frosting applied to her skin, it fit her form so well. The train was relatively short at seven feet long or so and was bunched behind her with loving care. Chris knew it would unfurl delicately as she walked.
   The hallway lights came on, and he saw that the floor was festooned with rose petals. The sound of a church organ warming up gave way to the initial strains of "Here Comes the Bride". Yuki lifted the veil and turned her face up to the light, their eyes meeting for the first time. Now he understood Janique's deep infatuation with her.
   In a final touch of humiliation, or so Chris thought, Janique had given her a garish application of make-up that would have made Tammy Faye Baker cringe. Bright blue eye shadow, thick mascara that ringed her eyes so as to make her look like an insomniac raccoon, rosy circle on her cheeks borrowed from Raggedy Ann, and a mouth as bright red as a mandrill's asscheeks.
   "Will you give me away, Daddy?" she asked demurely, and bowed deeply to him.
"No," he said, "But I'll rent you out from time to time."
   She smiled at this, and her beauty shone radiantly, second only to Janique's.

Chapter 32 - The Ceremony
   He extended his elbow to her, which she accepted, and they began the procession. Chris couldn't help but to look at her backside, and was rewarded with a view of not only her young, firm, petite, milky-white ass, but a bright red butt plug that sported a long black ponygirl tail. He slapped her right cheek once, as one would a horse, and they slowly walked to the altar that she and Janique had constructed in his absence.
   They turned the corner, and there she was. Janique was lit from behind, and there was a supernatural glow about her. She was wearing a man's tuxedo, and her hair was pinned up short, a vision of loveliness, no matter what she wore.
A huge black strap-on hung out of her open trousers.
   Chris and Yuki sallied forth, and he symbolically gave the girl to Janique, waiting until their arms were intertwined before releasing her. Then he flipped his collar around and assumed the role of Father Chris, facing the happy couple from in front of the altar. He began to recite a variation on the familiar themes of matrimony.
   "Nearly beloved, we are gathered here this night to lock these unholy wenches in the eternal bonds of servitude. What I join, let no man put asunder. God giveth, and God taketh away, and all sales are final. Void where prohibited. If any of you might voice an objection as to why these two superhot bitches should not be joined in matrimony to form some sort of four-legged fuck machine, speak now, or forever hold your penis."
   Chris paused and scanned the room for effect. Hearing no voice of dissent, he continued.
   "Do you, Janique Tamerlane Turner, promise to take Yuki Whatever, to have and to hold, bend, staple and fold, cleanse and manipulate, train, abuse, love, and cherish forever?"
Janique grabbed Yuki by the hair and brought her face close to her own. "I do," she said pointedly, looking deep into her soul.
   "And do you, Yuki Whatsherface, swear an undying allegiance to all things Janique, to be her toilet and footstool, pillow or blanket, her towel, her dinner plate, her dog bowl, her shameless slut-in-training, her nastiest daughter and filthiest sister, eternally?"
"Hai," Yuki said, bowing as best she could under the circumstances. "English, bitch," Janique said through gritted teeth so as to not disrupt
her smile or demeanor for the cameras.

"I do," Yuki said breathlessly.
   "Then with the powers vested in me by the divine right of kings, I now pronounce you brides of Chris." He unzipped his pants and let his engorged cock hang out. It began climbing for the ceiling. "Let us pray," he said, and the happy couple fell to their knees.
   For decorum's sake, the actions of their honeymoon night remain a private matter, the details of which are known only to the three of them.

Chapter 33 - Special Delivery
   The next morning, which for them was some fifty-four hours later, Chris served the girls happily and sat at the foot of the bed to watch them stuff each other to bursting. Once they had finished, he took their serving trays away, and ran back to the bed, diving in between them. Both daughters serviced his insatiable erection, and then lay under his arms, nuzzling his sides as they dozed, ecstatically happy. They felt blessed; warm, safe, and secure.
   As the morning sun dissipated into afternoon's shadows inside the apartment, the trio stirred, but didn't wake. A rap at the door served as their alarm clock. Janique stumbled bleary-eyed to the alcove, Yuki in tow. Without a belt-loop or skirt hem to hang on to, she put her hand on Janique's bare hip, which undulated with its own seductive, serpentine motions. They were both bare-assed naked, with the remnants of various bodily fluids still clinging to them in patches.
   Janique opened the portal to find two gigantic wooden crates towering over her, with scarcely enough room between them to pass. The costumes! She considered them, pleased to have accomplished so much in so little time, and with limited resources. But she really had to pee, and the best part of her weekend was running down her leg.
   Yuki's semen sensor was tingling, and she involuntarily began to slide toward the carpet, her hand tracing the subtle parabola of Janique's hip and thigh. She was technically still in compliance, and Janique was feeling generous, still basking in the afterglow of her second honeymoon, so she allowed her to continue. Besides, she thought, she's only doing what me and Chris had programmed her to do.
   As Yuki began to lap at her keyhole, a hulking Japanese deliveryman pushed his way between the crates, clipboard in hand, his jet-black hair cascading over his muscular shoulders. Yook supped from her Tigress- Euphrates in the manner of a qualified bidet crossbred with piranha. Janique assumed a wide stance, giving her full access to the cradle of life from whence her sacred waters departed.
   Ever the sterling professional, the furniture mover handed her the receipt and awaited her signature, eyes forward, staring back into Janique's own blue-green pair. Unable to resist for long, his attention wandered as she considered the bill of lading. His eyes passed from hers, taking in the

essential beauty of her face and the exquisite charm of her neck with the patient relish of a gourmand.
   He was mesmerized by her breasts and spent much of his time there, where they seemed to float before him, defying gravity. Janique caressed the pen attached to the clipboard, rustling the papers slightly as he continued his exploration of this foreign landscape. His eyes grazed over her perfect stomach, the remnants of her brunch causing it to pooch out slightly, foreshadowing her child yet conceived.
   The delivery driver's eyes widened comically when he finally saw Yuki performing one of her essential functions. Her tongue poked out from between Janique's legs like a prehensile cock, and for a moment, he thought it was her pussy moving of its own volition. He was greatly relieved when he noticed the hands gripping her outer thighs. The chromed nails reflected the hallway lights, momentarily bedazzling him. Yuki's ivory fingers, several shades brighter than Janique's cream-colored skin, bore the semblance of a red aura due to her blood rushing to the surface to share in the delight.
   Finally, his eyes met Janique's again. Embarrassed, he meekly attempted to clear his throat, trying ineffectively to ask for the clipboard back. Janique hadn't applied her Jane Hancock to it yet, however.
   She shook her head no. "Not until I've inspected the merchandise," she said. "My momma didn't raise no fool."
   Janique grabbed his collar and pulled him to her until they were eye to eye. Then she reached down and grabbed his cock through his khaki Tokyo Express uniform, sizing him up.
"The elusive Asian anaconda," she remarked. "Quite a catch."
   Janique unzipped him and rubbed his brown cock head against her dripping slit, and then fed it to her waiting understudy. She attacked it like a finalist in an international sword-swallowing competition. Yuki was already a bronze-level Olympic cocksucker to Janique's seasoned gold. The poor brute lasted less than four minutes, but that was remarkable considering the setting, and the skills she was exhibiting.
   "Done, Mommy," she gargled, and then made a loud swallowing sound to show she was following procedure. A true slave to her core, Yuki's right hand never left her mistresses side. Also like a true slave, her other hand did something Janique did not tell her to do. Yuki drooled the sperm into her

fist, and then used her fingers to force as much of it as she could into her uterus.
   Janique returned the midsized monster to its cage and signed the invoice with a flourish. "You might want to save that autograph," she said. "I think it'll be worth a lot some day."
   The comfortably numb shift worker turned and exited stage center, and Janique wished that she had gotten some Ultimate Hustle business cards printed up, as he would have made a decent actor. Oh well, she thought, we could probably track him down without too much trouble.
   "Yuki?" Janique said in a sugarcoated voice that the girl knew concealed a razor.
"Yeth, Mommy?" she asked.
   "Get your tongue out of mommy's butthole for a minute. I need to talk to you."
   She withdrew slowly, swirling and flicking her tongue hard all the while.
"You may remove your hand, trash."
"Aww, Mommy," Yuki said, hoping to have her face slapped.
   Janique turned to look at her, her feet rotating her body but never lifting from the hardwood floor.
She looked up at her, eyes glowing. "Yes, Mommy?" she asked again.
   Janique spread her pussy with both hands and began to piss in her upturned face.
   She quickly opened her mouth, swallowing what she could and letting the rest run down her body and drip from her own now puffy tits and pussy. When Janique had finished with her, Yuki said, "Thank you, Mommy," and smiled her prettiest little girl smile, face glistening with golden specks of adornment. She moved to lick her pussy clean.
   Janique slapped her so hard, the droplets flew from her face and hit the wall.
"Clean this fucking pig sty," she told her. "Throw the roses out, too." "Yes, Mommy," Yuki said. She got down on all fours, lapping up the
puddle and making exaggerated slurping sounds.
   "And then go clean up Mr. Chris. We have work to do. I'm going back to bed. You disgust me."
   "Yeth, Mommy," Yuki said, looking up at her from the floor and smiling. "I wuv wu."

   "I love you, too, whorlette," Janique told her, and climbed back under the covers with her man.

Chapter 34 - Be Very Afraid
   Chris awoke again to find Janique's nose under his armpit, and Yuki nursing on his flaccid cock. Both were still sleeping. Lightly, he caressed Janique's back as she pressed herself closer against him, somehow desperate for his love even while unconscious. Yuki also began to suck harder in her sleep. Soon, he was lodged deep in her esophagus, her tiny tongue extending to new lengths in an effort to fully caress his balls..
   Just when he thought she might actually succeed, Janique's eyes popped open, alarmed. Without a word, she ducked beneath the covers, and a blood-curdling scream replaced Chris's cock in Yuki's mouth. She moved as far away from the two of them as she could, cowering in the far corner of the bed, with Janique holding onto her hair in a death grip. She sobbed and whimpered, muttering tearful pleas in a language no one else could understand. The entire scene was so savage and primeval in its ferocity, Chris lost his erection, which Janique made no effort to recover.
   She released Yuki, and kicked her with the bottom of her foot, knocking her off the bed.
   She popped back up next to him and kissed his cheek. "Good mourning, sleepy-head," she said brightly. There was blood in the corners of her mouth, but she acted as though nothing of import had occurred.
"Ready to play?" she asked him.
   "Okay..." he said tentatively. Ordinarily, that meant sex. This time he felt she meant something, if not entirely different, then a stark departure from the sort of lovemaking they were accustomed to.
   "Oh, goody!" Janique said, giddy as a child on Christmas day. "Get dressed, Daddy," she yelled over her shoulder, her bare feet scampering across the Persian rug to their walk-in closet.
   Chris leaned over the edge of the bed and grabbed his clothes from the previous day, and Janique came back in a nightie, with a hammer and a crowbar, which she threw onto the bed. She leaned over the prone body of Yuki, who had ceased her lamentations.
   "Yuki!" she said, "Wake up! It's time to open our toys and play!" She shook her shoulder to rouse her, and their gently helped her onto the bed, where she again collapsed.
   She had a huge bite mark on her cheek, with Janique's distinctive tooth pattern. Chris knew this because he bore the same mark as a tattoo on his arm, which was made by filling in an actual bite from Janique. Yuki was

bleeding, however, and Chris knew it would leave a permanent scar, tattoo or not. Janique ignored her and withdrew to her closet again. His eyes involuntarily moved down her back, drawn to her ass. Her legs were partially spread, and Chris noticed a new detail. Janique's handprint was tattooed on Yuki's right cheek. And no mere outline, it was filled in a solid black.
   Battered, enslaved, and in pain, she still occasionally moaned and shuddered. Incredibly, Chris's cock was getting hard. Her ass began to twitch and she pushed back and upward a bit, revealing a delicate brown button that was as of yet virginal. Her pussy emitted a single drop of lubricant, which dribbled down and hung off the pearl of her clit like a drop of amber.

Chapter 35 - Pet
   As if on cue, Janique returned with Yuki's leash and collar. She squeezed Chris's obvious hard-on through his jeans and coyly remarked, "Bad Daddy..."
   They smiled at each other, despite the basic awkwardness of the situation, more in love and attracted to each other than ever. Yuki was a prop. Furniture.
   "We should have named her MSG," Chris remarked. "Because she somehow makes you taste even better."
   "Aww, honey. Let's get her dressed for rehearsal. Up," she said, lightly slapping Yuki's handprint tattoo.
   The girl got on all fours, her head hanging down dejectedly. Janique grabbed her hair and pulled it backwards violently until Yuki wailed in agony.
"Shut her up," she told Chris.
   He put his hand over her mouth. Janique shot him a look that said, "We are not amused." He unzipped and shoved in all nine inches of his cock.
   "Pobrecita," she said with mock sympathy. Janique was much more fluent in Spanish than Japanese, and refused to be conventional in matters of personal choice. Japan could learn Spanish or English and cater to her. Chris held Yuki's fraying braids with both hands and fucked her throat deeply, occasionally pulling out in order to see and hear her gag, while Janique fitted her with a collar and leash.
"Come her, Santa Claus," she told Chris.
   He pulled his engorged cockhead from Yuki's esophagus with a wet "plop" and she began to gasp for air. Chris walked to the foot of the bed, where Janique was standing in front of her vulnerable and exposed hindquarters. She handed Chris the hammer, and retained the small crowbar for herself.
   "Look, Santa," she said, "This is your present." She spread Yuki's quivering ass with the thumb and forefinger of her left hand. "It's never been opened," she said. "New in the box."
   Janique pulled him to the foot of the bed by his cock and rubbed it on her puckered rear entrance.
"Aww," she said. "It's too big. Won't fit." Janique smiled broadly at her husband.

   "Is that what the crowbar and hammer are for?" he asked, turning the hammer handle around and pointing it at Yuki's bullseye. A light bulb went off over her head.
   "I almost forgot! Silly Santa," Janique said in her babydoll voice. "Come on, Yook!" she told her, dragging her off of the bed and to the door by her leash, in the manner of a pet owner bringing a reluctant bitch to the vet. She flung open the door, to reveal the two towers in the corridor.
   "Surprise!" she yelled with glee, dropping Yuki and her leash at the threshold. "It's our new costumes!"
   Chris pried them open, and was startled at the work and artistry that had gone into them.
"Did I do good, Daddy?" she asked him, fairly begging for his praise. "You always do, angel," he told her. "Perfect every time." Chris gave
her a back-cracking hug, and a brief kiss on the lips almost turned into a hot romp in the hallway.
   He carefully brought both suits into the living room, and Janique led Yuki outside of the doorway on her hands and knees, where she curled up in one of the shipping containers. Janique tied her leash to the doorknob, and stood over her, bending at the waist.
   "Stay," she said sternly, waggling a finger at her, the other behind her back, still clutching the hammer.
   Chris observed this, and was granted a vision of a sign they'd seen once in L.A. It was for an exterminator and featured a sculpture of a character standing in a similar pose, with a gigantic mallet behind his back. She seemed to be unconsciously recreating it from memory. Or perhaps it was done with intention on her part. Her current regression to childhood, which Chris attributed to an unacknowledged competition with Yuki, led him to forget at times that Janique was a vibrant, intelligent adult woman, operating on multiple levels at once.
She turned away from Yuki, and nearly collided with him.
   "Janique," he said, the signal for her to revert to his peer rather than his daughter, "You girls did amazing work on the outfits."
Chris threw his arms around her waist and pulled her close.
   She looked up into his eyes. "Why, Mr. Turner," Janique said, "I am flattered, sir."
   "All true, my love. I do not use these words lightly, or with just anyone," he added.

   They kissed again, the simple, powerful kiss of man and wife, tender and sweet, but masking the explosive power of an immovable object colliding with an irresistible force.
   "I just love you," she said, which answered everything. "Come on, 'Daddy'," she said, mocking him ever so lightly in response to his previous thoughts. "I want to show you my costume first."
   After Chris passed through the entryway, Janique gave Yuki's leash a hard jerk.
"Stay," she said, closing the door behind her.

Chapter 36 - Ultrawoman
Janique made Chris cover his eyes while she dressed. "This is silly," he said. "I've seen your insides."
   But he played along. She loved playing dress-up. "After all,", as she was fond of saying, "If I don't get dressed, you can't undress me." It felt like ten minutes had passed before she said, "Okay."
   He uncovered his face to see Janique standing before him as a robot, hands on her hips.
"Wow!" he said.
   She retained her femininity, but the human Janique had transformed into something altogether new. The suit was red and gray, angular in design, much in the fashion of Ultraman. The differences soon outweighed the similarities as he walked around appraising her.
   The tops of her boots extended to her knees, providing fearsome shin guards that tapered to blunt points at the top, becoming weapons when she bent her legs. Her thighs were uncovered, but red and green LEDs ran up the inside of them at an angle, leading to her pussy like runway lights toward a landing strip. They lit in sequence, and Chris would learn later that the tempo was tied to her heart rate and temperature.
   She wore armored bikini bottoms, French cut, that accentuated her ass far more than even a g-string could have, leaving a little to the imagination. They connected to her top on the sides in archway patterns that left her mid- drift, back, and flanks exposed in a way that was offensive to the very precepts of defense. Chrome spikes jutted from her spinal column, leading over her shoulders to the ultimate in bullet bras, composed of the same space-age material as her jeweled battle shorts, light-weight and ridiculously strong. Smaller spikes jutted out from her nipples.
   Her slender neck was fully exposed, with her Ultimate Hustle tattoo visible. It was her face that most disconcerting. Her hair was gone, tucked under the helmet that had become her head. Her ears were now small mounds that sported antennae that stood three inches high, shooting blue lightning back and forth between themselves. Her eyes were huge black voids, darker than anything Chris could have imagined, yet they reflected light with an amazing clarity. One could get lost staring into them. She had no nose, and her mouth was a grill stretched into a perverse rictus of a smile.

   "How do I look?" she asked him, stance wide, hands in fists on her hips. She wore gauntlets covered with spikes like ten-penny nails, and gloves that wouldn't have looked out of place on a medieval suit of armor.
Chris found himself unable to speak. "Watch," she said.
   The lightening bolts increased in intensity, and the antennae rotated forward, pointing outward instead of up. The bolts shot forward, and two burn marks appeared on a pillowcase under wisps of smoke.
   "Whoopsie," she said in her eerie new robotic voice through her permanent smile.
"How the-"
"Ancient Chinese secret," she told him and giggled.
   The demo was enough to make him scarcely notice the seven-foot-tall Godzilla in the corner of the room. Janique went to the front door to retrieve Yuki, and she was gone. Her leash was still tied to the doorknob, collar attached, but their pet was nowhere to be found. Both of the crates were gone as well.

Chapter 37 - Willy Wonka Returns
"Chris!" Janique yelled, starting to get upset. "Yes, my love?" he asked, appearing at her side.
   "Hey, you two," Yuki said, walking up with two large brown paper bags. She set them down at their feet and smiled broadly. If she had a tail, she would have been wagging it.
   "I thought I'd pop out for a few treats while you got dressed. I got coffee for us," she said, reaching into a carrying tray in one of the bags. She handed them each large Styrofoam cups of steaming Hawaiian blue roast, their favorite. She had no way of knowing that, however.
   Yuki wore a pink Hello Kitty baby doll tee, white shorts, and pink Chuck Taylor Converse high tops. She made no mention of the shipping containers, or where she got the new outfit from, and neither Chris nor Janique dared to ask her.
"Annnd," she continued, rummaging through the other bag.
   Although the blood was gone, her bite mark remained. If it bothered Yuki in the least, she didn't let it show. Secretly, she considered it a badge of the highest honor. She was branded. Owned. And she liked it. She produced a bouquet of short-stemmed multi-color roses surrounded by baby's breath and slowly unfolding fern sprouts.
   "Mommy of the Year," she said, handing Janique the flowers and curtsying. As they became more Japanese in their ways, Yuki was becoming somehow more American.
   Tears formed in Janique's eyes and hung there. She'd been dreaming of having children, and Yuki was becoming the very model of a perfect daughter. She almost had regrets about biting her so hard.
"And for honorable Papa-San," Yuki said.
   This time she did bow deeply, which he acknowledged by bowing deferentially in return, but only about half as much, as was the protocol. To bow as deeply as she had or deeper would have been an insult, because she was trying to acknowledge her status in the hierarchy. Likewise, there were numerous ways to say "thank you"' in Japanese, and each was a variation on "fuck you". To ask for or receive help in Japan was to lose face.
   She handed Chris two small rectangular objects, one orange and one brown. The orange read "Zig-Zag" and the brown one said "Job".
   "What's this?" he asked her, holding the Zig-Zags up at chest height. He knew what they were. What he had meant was, "What are they for?"

   Yuki pretended to scrutinize the package closely. "I always thought that was your American Jesus," she said, cheekily. "But I didn't know if you preferred Job instead, so I got both."
   She pronounced Job as you would a place of employment, and Chris didn't bother to correct her. It made her sound like an immigrant convenience store clerk momentarily, and he couldn't help but be amused.
   "Oh," she said, divining his intent. "For this..." Yuki pulled a one- gallon Ziploc baggie of bright green marijuana out of the grocery bag and tossed it to Chris. "Merry Christmas," she said, "Santa..."
He was stunned into silent submission.
   "Paul McCartney smuggled it here in his baby's diaper," she said, smiling. "The rest of this stuff is just munchies for later. And a few porn magazines. I really like American girls," Yuki told them. "I've had my fill of Asians. Variety is the spice of life, right?"
   Chris and Janique looked at each other, and then back at Yuki, in a state of disbelief.
   "What, no thank you?" she said, teasing them both. She pushed her way between them and into the apartment. "Come on," she called over her shoulder, "Let's play!"

Chapter 38 - The Better to Eat You With
   Chris and Yuki sat on the couch while Janique explained the complex inner workings of the lizard costume. He began to manicure some herb, anxious to roll the first joint he'd smoked in a long while. Yuki was about to get comfortable, having shed her clothing in anticipation of being in the undoubtedly hot suit with Chris. She started to lean over and suck on her daddy's cock, but remembered what had happened the last time she'd done that without express permission.
   She touched her hurt and scarred cheek and shot a nervous glance in Janique's direction. Sensing her apprehension, Janique walked over to her and passed a soothing hand across Yuki's crinkled brow. "Forgotten," she said. "You don't have to ask permission ever again, and you don't have to be afraid of me."
   "Yes, Mommy," Yuki said, and resumed her rightful place on the black leather sectional, cock in mouth.
   Before Janique had even finished dragging the costume to the area where the coffee table ordinarily resided, Yuki was on the floor between his legs. Her tiny hand was wrapped around his shaft, gripping it tightly and pumping as her tongue danced lightly across his balls en route to his asshole, where she would reverse course, on her way back to lick and suck his swollen cockhead.
   Janique looked at her duo, smiling upon her piglet-in-training. Did Chris's cock look bigger than usual? She wanted to attribute it to Yuki's smaller hands and frame, and her tiny mouth, or perhaps that he was especially excited. But a glance at his face told her it was just another day at the office for him. Furthermore, Janique was an excellent judge of size as well as character, and something told her that if she put a ruler on it right now, it would be a good ten inches in length. Whatever it was, her little family was happy, and so was she.
She gave the demo with an easygoing, relaxed air about her.
   "This suit is specially designed from the ground up to do the work of a team of special effects artists in real-time. Our goal is to shoot the climax of the film, which culminates in an epic battle sequence, in one continuous take. To that end, we have included a number of hidden features, raising the complexity level to the degree that it requires two operators inside." She flashed a toothy grin. "I'm sure neither of you have a problem with that."

   Chris gave Yuki her treat, and she sat up and paid attention, although she still clutched her chew toy, stroking Chris's swollen member as Janique spoke, refusing to let it go soft.
   "The fingers house a number of functions. Yuki, since this is your department, would you like to run through the controls for me?"
   "I'd be delighted," Yuki said, rising. Although she and Janique were naked, they comported themselves with perfect dignity and grace. They may as well have been fully clothed in front of a board of directors or a packed lecture hall. They slapped hands like a tag team as they passed each other. Janique took her place in the seat of honor as Yuki seamlessly resumed where Janique had left off, and vice versa.
   She stood with her hands at her sides and lectured as if by rote, although she had never given this presentation before, nor had she been filled in on all of the suit's functions.
   "Let's start with the head," she began. The creature's eyelids flicked open. Yuki glanced nervously at Janique and continued. "The tongue and jaws are controlled by the front operator, using the latest in facial mo-cap technology."
   Chris didn't recognize the word but didn't want to interrupt. He lit the first joint, and then held it for Janique.
   "In other words, by use of a few sensors, the front operator's facial motions are captured and then translated and passed on the suit, where they are replicated." She paused. "Of course, the suit's face lacks the sophistication of my own, so true one to one translation is impossible."
   Yuki smiled prettily and she was unnerved to see Gojira's face do the same. Except on the monster, it could only be a perverted parody of a smile. "The jaws," she continued, and the suit began to lip sync along with her
as she spoke. She looked desperately to Janique for an explanation, but she only shrugged and went back to sucking Chris's cock, now beginning to get comfortably stoned.
   "The jaws have been modified to open wider than usual to accommodate our client's, ahem, special needs. Which leads me to this," Yuki said, sticking out her tongue. The monster's tongue of course extended as well. She waggled it for effect, now enjoying the mirror-like action presented by the suit's instant response, and then went on.
   "This, is of course necessary for the battle/sex sequence, a pivotal third of the film. If the mouth doesn't open wide enough, I'll be unable to eat

Ultrawoman's pussy. And I can't have that."
   Chris was unable to hold back his burning question. He politely raised his hand and waited for Yuki's acknowledgement.
   "Ah, someone has a question. Yes, go ahead, sir," she said, enjoying the exchange.
"Isn't there going to be a legal issue with your age?" "I'll field this one," Janique said, clearing her throat.
   "Our lawyers have examined this problem extensively, from all sides. Their conclusion is that there is no jeopardy, for three reasons. First, her identity will be well-hidden, being in the suit."
"Pertinent," Chris agreed.
   "Second of all, she technically won't be having sex with anyone, the suit will."
"That's interesting," Chris said. "I hadn't considered that."
   "Currently there are no known laws, national or international governing this situation. In fact, sources tell me that this entire 'sex by proxy' issue won't be on the radar for another twenty-five to thirty years."
"Sources?" he asked.
   Janique went on. "A related aspect is that this is Japan. Although currently under pressure from the U.S. to reform, this film, interestingly enough, will be completely legal, suit or no suit."
"No kidding?" Chris asked.
   "No kidding. Not that legal considerations kept you from sticking your dick in her, did it?" Janique asked lightly. She and Chris had an enlightened view of such things, to the say the least.
"Hey," he said, "You got me there. And the third thing?"
   "Two can keep a secret if three are murdered," Yuki said, "Or something like that. Meaning, if you tell my dad or someone, we're all dead. Or at least you two are." She smiled and fluttered her eyelashes.
"Moving on..." Janique said.
   "Blah blah blah eyeballs," Yuki said, moving her fingers in the air. Gojira's eyes looked around, following her lead. "The back fin lights and pulses according to the mood of the wearer, so it will glow in an intensity corresponding to the tempo of the fighting or fucking. I'd now like to direct your attention to the creature's huge cock."
   It slowly rose to full mast, curving over in a graceful arc like half of a rainbow.

   "During production, it's actually erected by a foot-operated control," she explained. "It's also tied into the wearer's vital signs, so it's possible to excite it to new heights." Yuki paused and smiled at her adopted family. "And as you can see, it's equipped for maximum pleasure on the part of the receiver. Janique, would you like to give Mr. Chris a demonstration?"
   Janique let Chris's cock fall out of her mouth and drooled semen all over his balls, where it pooled on the couch cushion beneath him.
   "No, not until you two are in it," she said. "We'll set up the cameras and do a dry run soon. You can get over here and clean this mess up, however."
   "Yes, Mommy," Yuki said. She got down on all fours and crawled over to them, first pausing to nuzzle Janique's leg and receive a pat on the head.
   "Good girl," Janique told her. All three of them were alive with pleasure.
   Janique went back to nursing on his cockhead, intentionally sucking extra hard on it while staring at Yuki's eager face. Yuki stuck out her tongue and gave Janique a raspberry, the corners of her mouth turning up in a faint smile. Then she went to work. Chris squirmed as her tongue danced expertly over and around his balls. Understandably so, as she was trained by the best. She lapped and sucked until her mouth was halfway full.
   "Up," she gargled, sliding the palms of her hands under his muscular ass cheeks. She gently lifted him up off of the couch as he pushed his feet against the floor. Yuki slurped the mixture of his cum and Janique's saliva from the couch cushion like soup. When she was done licking up the remnants, she plunged her tongue into his wet asshole and wriggled it around hungrily, making loud slurping noises.
   Janique grabbed one of her pigtails and lovingly pulled her up off of the floor.
   "Give it," she commanded. Janique opened her mouth wide as Chris watched with interest.
   Yuki stood over her and slowly let the concoction pour into her mouth. At a little past the halfway point, she stopped, and Janique gave her braid an additional twist, eliciting a wince and a whine, both designed to provide everyone the utmost in enjoyment.
   "All of it," she told her. Yuki stuck out her lower lip in a pretend pout and let what was left drop into her mistress's waiting mouth. "Mmmm," Janique said after swishing it around like a fine wine and then swallowing it. "A very good vintage."

"Bukkake Mommy," Yuki said. "Mother's little helper," Janique said.
   "Will you two stop with the movie titles? We have work to do," Chris chided them.
   "Need we remind you, sir, that we're in the movie business?" the two girls said in unison. It was a line they would use on him often.
   He sighed and moved his finger in the air with a 'get on with it' motion, smiling, and lit another joint. Yuki resumed the demo.
   "The rest is pretty standard stuff, the operator's hands and feet control the suit's hand and feet, with additional features triggered by micropiezos and relays in the fingertips. However, there is one tiny pitfall." She let the words hang in the air for dramatic effect.

Chapter 39 - The Dance
Yuki grabbed Gojira's cock/tail and waved it in the air comically. "This!" she said, laughing. "This is a huge problem. And it's not going
to go away. Seriously, though. The second cock, or tail, if you will, operates independently of the rest of the controls and thus requires a co-pilot. Level of difficulty? The easiest way to operate the tail is for the second operator to face backwards."
   Chris interrupted a second time. Janique was sleeping with her head in his lap, still suckling occasionally on the soft cock that remained in her mouth.
"What's so hard about that?" he had to ask her. "Oh," she said, "We'll both be standing in the feet."
   Chris saw what she meant. She'd be walking forward at the same time he would be walking backwards.
   "Oh, it's not that hard," he said. "If we were facing each other, we'd be waltzing."
   Her eyes lit up. "That's a good point. But we Japanese as a rule don't dance very well. I have no idea how to waltz."
"It's not that hard. I'll show you."
   He gently lifted Janique's sleeping head and replaced himself with her second favorite pillow. Maybe third favorite, he thought. She had grown quite fond of using Yuki. Chris had been clad in only socks, and he discarded these as well. He snapped his fingers and Strauss's Vienna Waltz by Vladimir Horowitz began to play.
   He stepped to Yuki and extended his right hand to her. She accepted, and he pulled her close.
"When two people dance like this," he said, "only one of them can lead.
Traditionally, the male, I'll guide you until you learn the steps."
   Chris pulled her closer, her delicate body melting against his own. This was a new level of intimacy for her. "Stand on my feet," he told her, and she threw her arms around his neck, stepping onto his bare feet with her own, which were half the size of his.
   "It's a simple three step move," he told her, as he began the sequence, "but it's very elegant."
   They began to soar as if on the wings of a dream. Yuki gave herself over to him completely, her body gone weightless, and they twirled around the living room, which had grown larger, the Gojira suit no longer present. As

they spun, he caught glimpses of Janique sleeping contentedly on the couch, her Ultrawoman helmet staring out at them from the corner of the room.
   "Once you've mastered the basic steps, there are endless variations to be had." He pulled her tight and she rested her head against his chest as he spoke. "It's really quite an experience to dance in a ballroom with others," he said. "The fancy dress, the chandeliers, and candelabras. It's..." he searched for the right word, "sublime."
   Yuki sighed and pressed herself tighter against him, lost in the moment. Chris's words had transported her back to a better time where life was spent in beauty and grace. Not in decadence, but there was a conscious effort to make every moment count. He stopped moving for a moment and said, "Want to try on your own?" Yuki just shook her head slightly, never raising it off of his chest. She never wanted to step down again.
   Chris indulged her, happy to fulfill her dreams. If he and Janique had their way, they would grant every wish for every good boy and girl on the planet. As it was, they could only make one person happy at a time. They had a bigger plan in the works, of course.
   He timed the dance to end with them at the couch. The music faded out, and he gave her one final squeeze, planting a warm kiss on her tattoo. Reluctantly, she loosened her grip and stepped back down to Earth. They both knelt side by side in front of Janique and watched her sleep. She wore Mona Lisa's smile as she dreamed.
   In it, she was Yuki. But she wasn't dancing with Chris. She moved at the speed of light, cutting down all in her way with a flaming katana.

Chapter 40 - Ultimate Demo
   When Janique awoke, Chris and Yuki were inches from her face. They were munching on an array of Twinkies, Pop Tarts, Oreos, and drinking strawberry Quik. They had set out a selection of treats for her as well. She ordinarily didn't drink milk, but when there were Oreos involved, the ordinary flew out the window.
   She smiled lazily at them as she sat up and grabbed a Pop Tart. "Man, I'm starving," she said. "How long was I asleep?"
They looked at each other and giggled.
   "Well, I hope I didn't miss too much fun," she said, joining in the merriment.
   When the laughter had died and everyone was fed, Yuki piped up. "Would you believe I've never gotten stoned before?" she asked them.
   "With anyone else, I'd find that hard to believe," Chris said. "But in your case, yeah. Why would you need to?"
"Maybe it would make me less inhibited," she said coyly.
   "In that case..." Chris laughed. "It is really good, too. Would you believe I did time with the kid who developed this strain?"
   Yuki's eyes grew wide. "You know Willy Wonka?" she said, full of wonderment.
   "Well, that's not his name, but, yes. We were in prison together. That's where he bred the hybrid. It's marijuana and spearmint grafted together."
"Wow. You guys have the best stories," Yuki said, admiringly.
   "It's all true," Janique chimed in, "Now let's get you high so we can molest you."
"Again," Chris said.
"Forever," Yuki said, completing the catechism.
This time he rolled three joints, each smaller than the first. "Mama bear," he said, giving Janique the middle one.
"Pooh bear," he told Yuki, presenting her with the smallest of the three. "Yum," she said, air-hitting it.
"Oooh, hold on. Undocumented feature time," Janique said. "In addition to it operating by remote control?" Chris asked. "Heh, you just gave me an idea."
   She pulled the suit over in front of the couch, a few feet back from where Yuki was sitting.
"Okay," she told her. "Stick it in your mouth."

   It was something she never needed to be told twice. Yuki put the unlit joint in her mouth and rose, pantomiming a person facing a firing squad. Janique snapped her fingers, and a column of blue-white fire blasted out of Gojira's mouth directly into her face.
   Chris was horrified. His first thought was that Yuki was surely dead, if not just horribly disfigured, burned beyond recognition. All he had time to do was gasp. His next thought was house fire. As quickly as the flames erupted, they were extinguished. For a moment afterward, he saw her with soot on her face, hair in disarray as though she had lit an exploding cigar. He blinked, and there she sat, lightly puffing away as though nothing had happened. Had it? Once again, he elected not to mention it.
"Cool, huh?" Janique asked. "Wheeeee!" Yuki said. "Again!"
   Instead, she lit Chris's and threw it back to him, and then lit her own. Soon they were thoroughly baked. She put her helmet on and blew smoke out of her grill, and it exposed red laser beams that were emitted from her eyes. When the smoke dissipated, they could only be seen as dots on whatever she was looking at.
"Get in," she told them in her robot voice.
   "Wheeeee!" Yuki yelled again and ran over to get in the suit. In a flash, she was inside and warming up the controls, eyelids flittering, eyeballs straining in all directions. She stretched the mouth opened wide and gave the tongue a brief workout.
"Come on, Daddy!" she said through the suit.
   Chris sauntered over, still smoking, pulled the back wide and stuck his head in.
   "Boo!" Yuki said at him from the darkness. She stuck her arm out of the creatures back and pulled him in, where they stood facing each other. The red glow of the joint lit their faces.
   "Our lips are so close," Yuki said. Chris put the joint out on his tongue, a favorite party trick.
"No kissing!" Janique yelled at them, laughing.
   He gave her a long, slow French kiss that Janique felt from across the room. Both she and Yuki were breathless.
   "You're supposed to be facing the other way," he said when she had her wits about her once again.
"So are you," she said.

"No one tells me what to do," he told her.
   "I heard that!" Janique said in her lilting voice, and everyone had to laugh.
   "Those are just guidelines. Turn around." Yuki did, and then pushed her bare ass against his cock.
"In my pussy," she whispered.
"I heard that!" Janique yelled again. This time she laughed alone.
   Instead of turning around, he let Yuki grind against him, stirring his libido. She stepped on the cock elevator with her right foot, bringing it to full mast, and then waggled it in the air at Janique.
"Yum," she yelled. "Action!"
   Chris spat upon the index and middle finger of his left hand and spread her young cheeks with his right. He gave her exceptionally tight asshole a perfunctory rub to wet it, and then forced his fingertips inside. Yuki tensed up, increasing the pressure on his digits.
   He kissed the back of her neck. "Relax," he whispered, half-expecting Janique to yell "I heard that!" a third time.
   There was a simple joy and humor in repetition, they had found. And, after all, the third time was usually the charm. Janique sensing a moment, held her fire. Out of consideration for her size and age, he wet his cockhead. In his experience, there would be some small amount of blood. It would burn, but also lubricate.
   Before he pressed forward, he pulled her head back savagely by her hair and wrapped his other hand around her neck. "Listen, you fucking piece of Asian trash," he growled, "It's fun to play with you, and Janique and I both love you, but at the end of the day, I'm hers, and she is mine. Forever. Remember that, and don't ever try and come between us. Got it?"
   "What if you're both fucking me at the same time?" Yuki asked him through gritted teeth.
He released her and kissed her cheek where Janique had bitten her. "Well, that's different, isn't it?" he said adoringly.
   "Yes, Daddy, thank you, Daddy," she said, performing an act of contrition and telling him what he wanted to hear. In reality, she was trying to save herself from the full brunt of the impact she knew he was capable of delivering, nine inches of rock-hard cock in her tight, virgin asshole.
   "Hey, you two," Janique said, her voice full of good cheer, "Get a move on."

   Chris repositioned his cockhead, now so swollen it practically glowed in the dark, against her pink and brown rosebud.
   He thrust it forward, breaking her seal forever, and neglected to cover her mouth, instead gripping her shoulders as he entered her. Janique heard her scream, and Gojira reared its head back in pain and anger. The eyes glowed red, and the suit translated her cry into a ferocious trademark roar.

Chapter 41 - Battle Royale with Cheese
   Suddenly, Yuki was scanning for Ultrawoman, who was conveniently located fifteen feet ahead of her, hands on hips in a gesture of open defiance. Chris pushed deeper into her, and she screamed again, the costume erupting in another primal roar that rattled the dishes in the kitchen and knocked books off the shelves.
   The creature's mouth let out another blast, and Janique held her arms up in an "X" in front of her to ward off the intense heat. When Yuki stopped screaming, the fire stopped as well.
   "That was great, you guys," she said in her Ultrawoman voice. "Now try walking."
   This time Chris did cover her mouth. He didn't understand how the fire from Gojira didn't burn the apartment down, but he didn't want to take any chances. Now heedless of her pleasure or pain, he rammed his cock in her to the hilt. Her mouth tried to open, but her scream was silent. For one insane moment, Yuki had the instinctual urge to bite him. She wanted the searing pain to stop. Now.
   His other hand mauled her tiny tits, pulling and twisting her light brown nipples, stretching them. It sent shockwaves of convulsions all the way down to her toes. When he was lodged deep inside of her, he began to pull back out. His oversized cockhead caused a vacuum effect, and the result was the equivalent of a bowel movement, save for the fact that he kept her bottled up.
   Her young asshole was dilated at two and a half inches across, and the pain was excruciating. At that moment, she hated Chris and Janique. Had she the opportunity, Yuki would have used her grandfather's sword to decapitate them both. Sensing that he'd taken their play too far, Chris stopped, gently rubbing her tits until the pain went away, although he was still lodged deep inside her. But her screaming and thrashing had ceased, and so he took his hand off her mouth.
   "Are you okay now, Yuki?" he asked her, his voice almost feminine in its sugary sweetness.
   "Come on, you two, walk," Janique called out to them, not understanding the pathos that was going on behind the scenes.
   "Just a minute, love," Chris called back. "We're having trouble coordinating."
"T-take it out, Daddy," Yuki begged him in a whisper, "Please?"

   She'd said the magic words. He withdrew, her asshole making an audible 'pop' sound as he did so. Before he could do or say anything, she had somehow turned around inside of the suit, and was bending down to gobble his cock. It was black as pitch inside, and Chris didn't ordinarily go ass to mouth with Janique without at least glancing at what he was feeding her. Yuki had never had anal sex before, but of course she was cognizant of the potentialities involved.
   She licked the underside of his head with deliberate slowness, emphasizing the essential filthiness of the act.
   The combination of mental and physical stimulation was too much for him to bear. Chris ejaculated, pumping ounces of cum into her busy mouth, which licked, sucked, and slurped like she was a desert traveler who had stumbled upon an oasis. Then, just as they had taught her, she slammed her head forward, swallowing the length of him. Yuki fucked her own throat with a frightening savagery. He worried that she would be going to the emergency room with a torn esophagus if she didn't calm down and take it slow.
   She sucked harder, pulling him back out of her mouth millimeter by millimeter, giving his still swollen head a final flourish with her tongue. Then she rubbed his slick and dirty cock all over her pert little girl face.
Yuki rose. "Do you like my moustache, Daddy?"
   He kissed her deeply, her perfume swirling around them both in a cloud, getting them higher than any mere chemical ever could.
"I love you, angel," he whispered to her.
   "I don't care about that," she said with a smirk, turning back around. "Now shove that motherfucker back up my ass."
   Chris was more than happy to comply. Although he had shot off once, he was still fully cocked and loaded.
   "Coming, Mommy," Yuki said, as happy as a clam. She considered the essential paradox of her feelings and discarded them.
   He pushed himself into her once again, now fucking her vigorously. They took their tentative first steps together. The fins on the suit had been pulsating, getting redder and brighter, but now there were sparks and formations of ball lighting flying off it in all directions. The beast looked so fearsome to Janique that she was concerned for own safety. Ultrawoman's chest plate began to glow red as well, corresponding with her own biometrics.

The fight was on in earnest.
   Gojira let out another blast, and Ultrawoman cartwheeled out of the way just in time for the curtains to burst into flames. At once, she was in front of them, and delivered a series of quick jabs to the creature's slobbering mouth.
"Ow!" Yuki said, laughing. Inside the suit, Chris was tearing her ass up.
   They shifted in unison and swept Janique's legs out from under her from the left, the lizard's tail striking so hard she landed on her side with an "Oof!"
   Janique rolled onto her back and then sprang up, landing on the balls of her feet. She flashed the universal Kung-Fu hand signal for "Get you some!"
   They parried back to the right, and this time she deftly leapt over it, delivering a roundhouse kick to the side of the head that would have made Chuck Norris shit his pants. The blow knocked Chris's cock out of Yuki's asshole. Now all three were getting pissed. He turned around inside of the suit and began to actively use the controls. It was an articulated design, with a skeletal system that let it swing gracefully in all directions; not quite prehensile, but very formidable. It operated via a single lever much like the rudder of a boat, but with three hundred and sixty degrees of movement.
   Chris was just getting the hang of it when Janique stepped on the tail, effectively shutting him down for the time being. He and Yuki were immobile. Trapped.
   "Fuck," he said quietly. He was starting to forget this was supposed to be a training exercise. Chris was so drawn in, he was talking to Yuki in a whisper.
   "On three, fall over," he told her, and then bit her earlobe hard enough to draw blood.
"Ouch," she whispered. "Okay, okay!" "One... two... three."
   Luckily, they both fell in the same direction. The suit hit the floor with a thud, twisting the tail and causing Janique to lose her balance. It was chaos inside the costume as the duo struggled to regain their footing. Chris and Yuki were entangled like a game of Naked Twister gone horribly wrong, and they would seriously have to work together to pull it out of the fire.
   After several seconds of confusion, they got back into position but were unable to right themselves. Janique had the upper hand. She came back at

them with a flying dragon, landing on the monster's midsection, one foot on Chris and the other on Yuki.
"Hey!" they yelled. "You're not playing fair!"
   Janique flexed her thighs and her underarmor flew off, exposing her erogenous zones. Some of then, at least. She tossed her helmet aside and stepped on one of Yuki's arms. She used her other foot to roll the monster onto its back, and then leapt forward to straddle its face.
   "Eat my pussy, bitch!" Janique yelled, lowering herself down for the first time on Gojira's tongue. Inside the suit, Yuki lay astride Chris, back to front. He took the opportunity to slide his re-stiffening cock into her wet pussy. The scent of her sex permeated the air of the suit.
   She began to work her mouth as he started fucking her, and she found that the suit transmitted the sensations back to her. She could smell, taste, and feel Janique's pussy, and began to eat her with gusto. This definitely was not part of the original design as she remembered it. The word "haptics" floated through her mind and was gone again. Then there was only Chris's cock, Janique's pussy, and the void.

Chapter 42 - Reptile Love
   Janique bounced up and down on Yuki's face like a child on a trampoline, with the reptile's tongue working deep into her furrow. It wasn't long before she reached her first orgasm, and Yuki bit down with the monster's huge jaws like a bear trap, her tongue beating Janique's clit into submission. As she came, so did Chris, shooting his first load ever into Yuki's grasping cunt.
   He wasn't really wasn't sure how Janique would feel about that, and at the moment, he was unconcerned. Regret really wasn't a part of the Turner vocabulary. After prison, they had no sympathy or empathy for anything, living or otherwise. In fact, they both had developed a certain fondness for abject carnage. They were here to fuck, kill, and chew Bubblegum.
Janique stood and then pulled Gojira up by the suit's stubby arms. "One more test," she said. "Fuck me with the tail."
"We thought you'd never ask," they said together.
   Janique slapped her own tits, one at a time, and the cups of her armored bra flew off. She gave them a shake for good measure.
   They turned around to face her and realized it wouldn't work like that. Instead, they came at her tail first. Janique laid on the floor and grabbed her ankles. They backed up closer to her, and Chris had an idea. He quickly traded positions with Yuki, with her facing Janique and the tail. Instead of manipulating the tail control directly, he pulled it upward and shoved her onto it.
   The ribbed handgrip slid into her slippery Japanese pussy with a squishy sound. She moaned while biting her lip, starting to lose control of herself. Chris then shoved his dick back into her distended asshole and began to fuck her hard. As he pushed forward, Yuki pushed forward, and the tip of the tail, well positioned by Janique, disappeared into her own hungry hole.
   Soon, all three were fucking in synchrony, with Yuki getting double fucked, Chris enjoying her loosening ass, and Janique cramming as much of the gigantic lizard tail into herself as she could take without ripping wide open. His cock swelled beyond its usual size, and he began to pull out far enough that his cockhead came partially out of her asshole, and then rammed it all the way back in as hard as he could.
   Consequently, Yuki decided she was going to hurt Janique's whore cunt with the spiked tail. However, Janique was no ordinary slut. Chris began to

lose control, first pulling her hair, and then slapping her face hard enough to bust both of her lips and make her bite her tongue.
   She tasted blood, and began to scream, partly in pain, but more so in rage. Chris held her shoulders so he could slam Yuki down onto the lever harder, and felt their collective orgasm rising. He sunk his teeth into her shoulder where it met her neck and began punching her lightly in the ribs. Finally, he reached his biggest peak of the evening. He and Yuki began kicking Janique's legs and ass as her pussy stretched to capacity.
   "Piece... of... fucking... shit..." Chris said through gritted teeth, squirting a huge load of cum into her battered asshole. He wrapped his hands around her throat as he and Janique came together, her screams rising in a crescendo that broke several wine glasses. Yuki passed out, and Chris finished ass-ramming her for the time being. He pulled his dirty cock out of her and climbed over her body, leaving her impaled on the tail lever.
   Chris stepped out of the back of the suit. Janique lay on her back, covered in sweat and shaking, her pussy stretched open to the size of a softball. Slowly, and with great deliberateness, he walked over to the light switch and put on the bright overheads. He then knelt down and took his bride by the hand, first kissing her and then pulling her up to a standing position.
They looked into each other's eyes and saw eternity. "All yours?" he asked her.
   "Forever," she said solemnly. Janique knelt before her lord and master and finished what Yuki had started.
"Aren't you forgetting something?" he asked her. "Oink, oink, Daddy," she said, beaming at her man.
   The three spent the night in each other's arms, sleeping under a blanket of stars.

Chapter 43 - Aftermath
   When they awoke the next morning, Yuki had cuddled up between them. Chris slipped out of bed to fetch breakfast, but she caught him at the bedroom door.
   "Uh-uh," she said. "Get back in bed. You know she likes to wake up next to you."
   He couldn't argue with that, so he kissed her cheek and crawled back in bed with Janique.
   Yuki prepared breakfast and then set the coffee pot to give them another hour of sleep. She curled up on the couched and dozed. As always, Janique was delighted to wake up next to her husband. She kissed his cheek and rested her head on his chest, listening to his heartbeat and breathing. Yuki sensed they were awake and was hesitant to disturb them, but lightly rapped on the doorjamb anyway.
"Come in," Chris told her.
   She carried a vintage Coca-Cola tray with a stack of toast, coffee, a cigarette, and a joint. She bowed politely and placed it between them, then sat at the foot of the bed.
"Did we sleep well?" she asked them.
"No," Chris said, "We made a few mistakes." Yuki smiled. "I hope I wasn't one of them."
"Never," Janique said. "You're the daughter we never had." "Yet..." Yuki said.
Chris and Janique eyed her with interest. "It could happen."
"Sounds like you have inside information," Chris said. "My lips are sealed," Yuki said.
"They'd better not be."
"So what are we doing today?" she asked Janique.
   "Scouting	locations,	blocking	shots,	casting,	and	overseeing construction of the cityscape."
"Sounds ambitious. I like it."
"Better make extra strong coffee," Chris said. "Hold on," Janique said. "Authenticate."
Yuki thought about it. "You just don't lead as much?"
"That was last week's passphrase, silly. Show Daddy your tattoos."

   She leaned to the side, moving her hair to reveal the Ultimate Hustle logo, a replica of Janique's. Chris leaned over, pretending to examine it, and gave her a little nip.
"Hey!" she said, rubbing her neck and laughing. "Just like Mommy," he said.
"That's not how we authenticate!" Yuki told him.
Janique produced a handheld black light and flipped off the overheads.
Yuki's tattoo glowed, surrounded by an oval that wasn't visible before. "Cool," Chris said grabbing both of their tits. "She's for real."
   "Why don't you and Mommy have to authenticate?" Yuki asked, all sweetness and innocence.
"Because she and I are eternal."

   He took the black light and threw it at the wall, where it shattered, plunging them into relative darkness.
   "Besides, we would know each other anywhere. Now both of you get on your knees and suck Daddy's cock."
   "Yeth thir," they said, delivering a mock salute, followed by a hearty good morning blowjob.

Chapter 44 - Attacking the Streets of Tokyo
   The three of them cleaned up and set out on the streets of Tokyo with a few cameras, and a few pre-rolled joints.
   "This is just a test run," Janique reminded them. "We're looking for interesting locations, features, landmarks, and maybe a few extras."
   Yuki rode on Chris's shoulders in order to block crowd reaction shots from above, and Janique held his arm as they strolled. They wandered around the business district amidst the skyscrapers. When they found a good location, they took an instant photo and then wrote the address on the bottom of the Polaroid. By lunchtime, they had gathered about twenty good shots, then found an outdoor caf� called "Bento" and sat down to order.
   "What looks good, Yuki?" Chris asked, since she was serving as their tour guide and translator as well as bait.
   "You both can eat my honeypot," she said, all teeth and smiles. They laughed.
   A waitress walked up. Yuki spoke a few words to her and she spun on her heels and walked off again.
"What did you order?" Janique asked her.
   "Mind your business, Mommy. Just work on your movie and let Godzuki worry about creature comforts."
   It was a stupendous relief for them both, in all actuality. Chris was forever in Lala Land, whether it was writing or busting heads, and Janique was usually looking at bigger picture business issues.
   The waitress, a stout older woman, brought them three Cokes while they waited.
"So where do we go from here?" Chris asked. "Tokyo Harbor. Duh," Yuki said.
"Well of course. Pretty obvious, really."
   "Godzilla's from the sea," Yuki reminded them. "Any Godzilla movie worth its salt has to have a shot of him rising out of the ocean. Usually via Tokyo Harbor."
"My goodness," Janique said. "Is it fucking Tuesday already?" "No, dummy," Yuki said. "It's Pun Tuesday."
Janique stuck her tongue out at her. "I was thinking," Chris said. "W-"
"I doubt that very much," Yuki said with mirth.

   "Be that as it may," he continued. "We should just move Pun Tuesday to Monday and call it Punday. Brevity is wit, someone once said."
   "That's the moon's day, sillyheart," Yuki said, slurping up the last of her Coke from the bottom of her glass with a straw. "Mommy's day."
Janique shone all of her love on her daughter.
"Dummy," Yuki said, pushing Chris over the edge of oblivion.
   "That's it," he said. He grabbed Yuki by the wrist and pulled her across his lap. In full view of a caf� of horrified onlookers, Chris pulled up her plaid microskirt, ripped off her panties, and proceeded to spank her ass until it was bright red. Janique's handprint glowed, and he didn't stop until she'd pissed herself.
   Then he stood her back up, gave her a brief hug and kiss, and set her back in her chair.
"Thank you, Daddy," she said, her eyes again downcast.
   The family mulled over this in silence until the food arrived. Janique and Yuki got bowls of soup, and Chris received a T-bone steak and potatoes with a side of peas and carrots.
"Yummy," Janique said, sampling the bouquet. "What is it?"
   "Bukkake. A simple Japanese noodle soup. Primarily noodles, eggs and spices." She drank a bit of the salty broth. "But in Japan, bukkake is used to describe what you get when several men squirt on one girl's face."
"Yum," Janique said. "You Japanese sure know how to live." "There's not much else to do but live..."
   Janique plucked a few strands of wet noodles from the bowl and lowered them into her waiting mouth. "It is really good. Thank you, Yuki," she told her.
Meanwhile, Chris had his knife and fork in hand. "Wait," he said. "First, a joke."
   The girls looked at him in anticipation. He held a single pea down with his fork and gingerly cut it in half. He tossed one half into each of the two bowls of soup and continued.
"After every line, say 'pea-green soup'." "Okay...." Janique said.
"What did you have for lunch?" "Pea-green soup."
"What did you have for dinner?" "Pea-green soup."

"And what did you do all night?" "Pee green soup," they said. "Yuk!" Yuki added.
   "Mildly amusing," Janique said. "But wouldn't it be funnier if you included breakfast, and said it three times?"
"Who eats pea soup for breakfast?"
"Good point. But you know I don't like peas." "Eat one for me. It's good for you. Please?"
   Janique fished it out with her spoon and placed it on her tongue for his approval before slowly chewing and swallowing it.
"Good girl," he told her. "That wasn't so bad, was it?" "No, sir."
"Good thing, or I'd have you wash it down with grape juice." "Double yuk," Janique said.
"So why do I get a T-bone, and y'all get soup?"
   "Simple respect, sir," Yuki said. "If we always had it as good as you do, there would be nothing to differentiate us. It is our status secondary to yours that ascribes our value. By giving you status above our own, and your valuing of us, we become more valuable. Does that make sense?"
"It is very lucid and compelling, Yook. A cognizant argument."
   "But you know, Yuki, that Chris doesn't think that way. He wants the best for you and I both. In fact, if the situation were reversed, he would be happy to know we were eating well. That's what sets him apart from other men. And that," Janique said, "is why he's all mine."
Yuki looked hurt.
   "Aww, Yook. You know you're always welcome to roll with us. Anytime, anywhere. I'm sorry I'm a little possessive. But it is the fact that Chris and I share an unbreakable bond is what allows us to share each other with you. Much like the status you accord him, he values me above other women. And I value him above other men," Janique said.
"That way y'all can fuck anybody," Yuki said, smiling.
"Sure, you can look at it like that. But the simple fact is, just because we
can doesn't mean we do. Aside from work, we really keep to ourselves." "Ahem," Yuki said.
"You're our adopted daughter. You don't count." "I can count to three."

   "And that's high enough, for now," Chris said, laughing. "Unless you have another hole we don't know about..."
"No comment."
   After they finished eating, Yuki stuck the bone from Chris's steak in her pocket. He glanced at Janique, but neither mentioned it aloud. During the walk to Tokyo Harbor, road construction forced them to take a detour. A Yak stepped out of a doorway ahead of them, leveling a gleaming .38 at Chris's chest. Probably upset about the ninja incident, and the two hundred thousand dollar burn he'd run on them earlier in the week.
   Chris blinked, and Yuki was ramming the improvised knife into his heart, twisting it for good measure. She stepped over the Yakuza henchman's corpse and stuck the pistol in the front of her pants, covering it with her shirt. They never missed a beat, and the trio continued their walk as if nothing had happened.
   They reached the bay at sunset, and sat in a peaceful, easy moment of silence as the sun dropped below the horizon.
   "I honestly love you two," Yuki said, radiating warmth and contentment.
"We honestly love you, Yuki," Janique said.
Chris sat between them, arms around their shoulders. "Time for a quickie. Keep an eye out," he said.
"Can you even do a quickie anymore?" Janique asked him. "We'll see."
   Chris unzipped his trousers and Yuki pulled his cock out, leaning over and drawing it into her mouth via suction. It quickly swelled to fill all available space. Janique kept watch for passers-by, all the while kissing him deeply, spreading her own legs to massage her swollen cunt.
   He began to fuck her throat vigorously, using his free hand to work her head up and down. Janique used her free hand to massage his balls, occasionally forcing her all the way down, choking her by proxy.
   "Ugh," Chris said, signaling that he was ready to erupt. Janique was near orgasm, as well, and she increased her attempts at frottage.
   At just the wrong moment, an urban professional couple walked by, fully dressed in matching business attire. They looked different only in that the woman wore a skirt and had longer hair. Janique received a flash of inspiration. She began to orgasm loudly, attracting their attention and spurring Chris on.

   Right as they were passing in front of them, she jerked his cock out of Yuki's mouth. The couple stopped and watched in amazement as Chris squirted thick, milky semen all over her lips and nose. Janique finished coming as well and stuck her wet fingers in his mouth. She smiled at the couple, and they eventually moved on.
   Yuki made as if to eat her portion but was forced to stop before she could do more than taste it. Eat it or wear it was Janique's motto, and she decided that she could wear the runny concoction home. The three of them walked a block to the subway station. By then, Chris's cum was hanging from her chin and dripping onto her blouse. People stared, and the crowd became denser. He paid for three tickets and then they walked through the turnstiles toward the platform, and a waiting car.
   Yuki had to stay out in front, but other than the racial disparity, they were a model nuclear family. That, and the fact that she had huge wads of sperm all over her face. By the time they had crowded onto the packed maglev, there was a constant low murmur about them. They pushed their way to a corner, and Chris put his back to the wall. Janique stood in front of him and used Yuki to partially shield them from view.
   As the train began to move, the lights dimmed and Janique reached behind her and pulled out Chris's still wet cock. He picked up her cue and raised her skirt. As much as he loved her pussy, he pushed his cock into her waiting butthole. It was too nasty an opportunity to pass up.
   She responded by pushing backwards against him, the swaying rhythms of the train aiding her movements as he entered her smoothly. Janique held Yuki's hips for balance as Chris pumped, grinding himself into her. As he did so, she reached around and pulled on Yuki's tits through her blouse and smeared the cum all over her face.
   Chris fucked her harder, and she began to rub Yuki's clit. Soon, they were all fucking with wild abandon in full view on the subway. Janique licked the cum off of his fingers, then pulled the girl's head back hard.
"Lick mommy's pussy, you fucking whore," she growled into her ear.
   Yuki quickly dropped to her knees facing Janique and began to tongue her sloppy wet hole in between bouts of nursing on her clit. The stimulation factor derived from the public nature of the scene caused Chris to cum ahead of schedule, and he clogged her colon with the impact and subsequent ejaculate.

   Janique roared into a full-blown squirting orgasm of her own, the slippery, salty spray, drenching Yuki's face and chest. When she was done with her head-turning histrionics, Chris withdrew his dirty cock. The girls fought over it like wild dingoes devouring a Maori child in the outback.
   When Chris was thoroughly cleaned up and ready for action once again, the girls remained kneeling before him, their attitude decidedly more New York or L.A. than Japan.
   "What?" Yuki shouted. "What the fuck are you motherfuckers staring at?"
   The meek train riders grew silent and averted their eyes until the bullet train slowed to a stop. As the passengers departed, one rider stayed behind.
   He was a longhaired heavy metal youth wearing a battered leather jacket that was slightly too small for his slender frame. The sleeves tapered at the wrists, with one of them torn up the side. His jeans, Levi's, tapered at his ankles, terminating in checkered Vans, imported items all. His t-shirt bore a horned figure reaching out from a wall of flames. "Mercyful Fate - Don't Break the Oath", it read.
   "Hi there," he said, handing Chris a business card. It read simply "Akira - Ace Photographer". "Would you folks mind if I take a few pictures?"
   "Do we strike you as the sort of people who give a fuck?" Yuki said brightly, then pissed into her panties and onto the floor.
   Akira began snapping photos with his Nikon, and the three struck a variety of lewd poses. At first, the girls resumed sucking Chris's cock, each taking turns throating it while the other licked his balls and ass. When he couldn't take it any longer, he pissed all over the two of them with a pungent spray like a fire hose. They squealed in delight as he directed the stream from one to the other's face. They held it in their mouths, swallowed great gulps of it, and spat it into each other's open dicksuckers. Yuki began to suck it off of Janique's tits until he was temporarily out of ammo.
"These are great shots, guys," Akira encouraged. "Keep it up."
   A new set of passengers climbed aboard and formed a semi-circle around the quartet. They ended the scene with Chris taking turns with their assholes.
   "Now," he said, and the girls spun around to receive his cum, nipping at each other's faces in a contest to clean his again filthy cock.
   The final photo was after they smeared his cock under their noses and used their by-now familiar catch phrase, "Do you like our moustaches,

Daddy?" It was a shot of both girls kissing Chris on his cheeks, eyes tilted toward Akira and his camera. The round of commuters erupted into applause. He whispered into Janique's ear, and the two girls reciprocated on Akira. It was a brief performance to be sure, but Chris managed to snap several prize-winning shots. The photography enthusiast had never had a blowjob of such magnitude before.
   Chris gave him a new Ultimate Hustle business card. Akira was exactly what the organization currently lacked. They exited the train and walked the few short blocks to their apartment. The girls' faces were a hot mess of piss, cum, and runny mascara. They fell into bed together and slept like babies through the night.

Chapter 45 - Final Curtain
The next day, they reviewed the photos of the locations they'd scouted. "I'm really glad we met that Akira guy," Janique said. "He's like the
missing link in this production."
   "Right," Chris agreed. "Porn with bad camera work is an eyesore. I think Gene Shalit once said, 'No one wants to see a close-up of Harry Reems's scrotum for thirty minutes.'"
   "I'm pretty sure you're misremembering a Saturday Night Live sketch or something," Janique said. "But, yeah. It should always be artful. It can be, at least. Good sex, for that matter, is artful. Even if it is really rough or nasty. Even sweet lovemaking can be explosive, if done well."
   They took their time over the next several weeks with preproduction, and all that remained was casting. The main problem was that there was a dearth of interesting people to use.
"Let's just use schoolgirls," Chris suggested.
   "That's your answer to everything," Janique teased. "The car's out of gas. Let's use schoolgirls. No cream in my coffee. Let's use schoolgirls. I want to have a fifty-person orgy. Let's use schoolgirls."
   "To be fair," Yuki said. "We are in Japan. Schoolgirls are our primary export."
"The food is also very good," Chris said.
   "I hate to piss on your parade," Janique said. "But I think we're being very shortsighted, here. Let's use schoolboys and girls. It would actually give the film a deeper layer of meaning."
   "Yeah, I think I see what you mean. That's a good idea," Chris agreed. "Kids work cheap." He smiled. "I'm sorry I like females so much, Janique. They remind me of you. I'll try to be more inclusive in the future."
   "Think nothing of it, Christopher. It's simple biology. If you liked boys, I wouldn't like you. But what I meant about using child actors is that to kids, everything looms over you like Godzilla. Plus, if they are spouting off incredibly hip dialogue, that makes it even better."
   "That's an interesting approach. I'd have to revise some of the script. But that leads us to an interesting quandary in that we're talking about a porno film. Can you have kids in one, even if they're not in the sex scenes?" Chris asked.
"Hmm, my gut instinct tells me yes, but we should run it by legal."

   "Guys," Yuki said. "You're forgetting something rather obvious regarding casting."
"What's that?" Janique asked.
   "We're the three stars of the film. Everyone else is an extra. If you follow that approach, we don't have a casting problem. We'll just double up."
   "Yuki, you're brilliant," Janique said. "I don't know why I didn't think of that. And poor Mr. Chris doesn't have a role other than being your tail."
They put their heads together over lunch and divided up the script. "Okay," Janique said, handing them a sheet of job assignments. "Here
are the major roles." The page read:

   "Janique - Ultrawoman, Bubble-headed Bleach Blonde, Schoolteacher, Helicopter Pilot, Military Commander.
   "Yuki - Gojira (front), Mischievous Schoolgirl, Television Reporter, Scientist, Heroine.
   "Chris - Gojira (back), Soldier, Professor, Bartender, Construction Worker".
"Yay!" Yuki said. "I'm a schoolgirl. That's a stretch."
   "It will be a stretch if I'm involved, little girl. Is it not enough that you're the star, Brattacus?" Janique teased.
"Silly Mommy," Yuki said. "You know you're always the star." "There are lots of stars," Janique said. "But only one moon." "That depends on what planet you're from."
   "Touch�," Janique countered, making her giggle. "But in case you haven't noticed, you're the heroine. Yummy, yummy heroine." She leaned over and kissed her little girl deeply. Almost as an afterthought, she kissed Chris as well.
   "Enough sex," Janique said. "We have a porn movie to make. Yuki, you're actually a binary star, both the hero and Gojira. Which is good, because it would be a waste if you never got to appear outside of the suit."
   "What if we made two versions? Like with King Kong and Godzilla. It would only require a few changes to the script and the ending," Chris said.
   "No good," Janique said. "This is in part to be therapeutic for Japan. That's why both of the principal monsters are Japanese. No matter who wins, it's a Japanese character."

   "Not to be the voice of dissent, here," Chris said. "But either way, Tokyo gets fucked."
"Confess. You planned it that way all along," Yuki added.
   "Well, yeah. But it's supposed to be symbolic. The buildings are to be destructible for a reason. Rebuilding will give them a sense of unity and purpose."
   "Tell that to the cardboard people and their cardboard pets," Yuki said, smiling.
"Hey, what about Akira?" Chris asked.
"Good idea. I forgot. He can play a photographer." "Heh."


   They had great fun constructing the sets. Yuki's father loaned them the use of a giant auditorium, and they began gathering cardboard boxes, toy cars, model airplanes, and helicopters kits. They also bought every little green army man in the city. The streets were constructed extra wide so as to accommodate the suits and camera work. Akira laid down a railway system to dolly the camera along at floor level. The initial test runs looked good, and the quasi-realism was enhanced by use of the remote-controlled vehicles.
   Production began in earnest, and by all accounts, it was shaping up to be a modern B-movie classic. Janique contacted the local Catholic school and arranged for four hundred Japanese schoolkids to do crowd reaction shots over two consecutive weekends. They plied them with roughly two thousand dollar's worth of pizza and Cokes each weekend, and the kids were excited just to be in a movie in the first place, much less a Godzilla movie.
   Of course, she made no mention of pornography. What she and Chris elected to do, in a move they would repeat in the future with great success, was to shoot two endings.
   Gojira's Revenge was already a breakthrough porn film in that all of the sex was in the last part of the movie. They filmed a nonsexual battle scene

for the benefit of the kids, completely destroying the city they had built. In a brilliant piece of cinematography, Yoichiro and Akira were able to use motion tracking to align the cityscape with the footage Janique had filmed during the test of the suits for many of the shots.
   They had enough film between the two scenes to fill in any gaps. The end result was impressive. All that remained at that point was to shoot the dramatic sequences, and they spent a leisurely few weeks doing so, having tons of fun and hot sex in the process. So many costume changes...
   At the same time, Chris and Janique continued to work, fucking and busting heads as the situation warranted. After a few more weeks of editing, the film was completed.
   They rented a theater for a private screening, and then gave two showings. They provided a matinee for the kids, and an evening viewing for Ultimate Hustle's premiere clientele. Janique did the pizza and Coke thing again and also bought several hundred dollar's worth of candy. No way was she going to pay movie theater prices.
   The film was well-received, with the children cheering throughout it, but were especially delighted to see themselves on the big screen. She also invited a few film critics to both viewings, although not many of them elected to sit through the second screening. Whether this was because of the porn aspect or because of the staggered showings, she was unsure.
   In the first of Janique's many famous hustles, she kept the non-porn print a secret from Hazel and released it independently, diverting all of the profits to a private account. The proceeds, two point two million dollars, were handled for them by Yvette.
   The porn version did well enough that Hazel was so happy with the income that she never even looked in-depth enough to notice any disparity. From there, it was just a matter of keeping her away from newspapers and the occasional review on the nightly news. She did, however, manage to skim her customary ten percent from the porn version, sealing her fate.
"It's time to go home," Chris said.
"Not yet. I have a certain thieving cunt to deal with."


   They did a wire transfer and arranged for Tokio's surgery through intermediaries. Via Yvette, they set a date to drain his accounts, covering their tracks well, burying the evidence in enough legal twists and turns that the mystery would never be unraveled. Chris and Janique had earned enough legitimate cash so that Hazel also had the money for his operation. They told her that they were returning to the states and would handle it when they got there.
   Everything was timed perfectly. A call from Janique at the airport was the signal to conduct the transfer. At the gates, little Yuki gave them both hugs and kisses goodbye.
"Don't forget about me, you two," she said.
   "Silly. You're very special to both of us. And you can come and stay with us whenever you want, okay? Take care of yourself."
   "Yes, Mommy," she said, smiling. "How about you, Daddy? Want to take me in the bathroom and stick it up my little girl butt?" She blinked her eyes alluringly.
   "Yuki, I'd like to say I'm too noble for that," Chris said. "But, yes, I'd love to. Unfortunately, we're pressed for time. I'd like a rain check. What's with the ice chest? You goin' on a pick-a-nick?"
   "Oh, gracious me. I almost forgot. This is for you." She handed Janique a green and white Igloo personal cooler, slightly bigger than normal. "Don't open it until you're on the plane, okay?"
   "Sure. No problem. Here's some numbers and addresses where you can reach us after we get home, okay?"
"Oh, goody! Thank you."
   "And I want you to take this," she said, pressing a stack into Yuki's hand, forty thousand dollars.
   "Aww, you guys. You know I'm already a little rich bitch," she said, showing them her sexiest smile. "But thank you. I won't insult you by refusing your generosity."
"Do something fun with the money, okay?" Chris said.
   "I will. I'm going to invest in Sony and Sanrio Corporation. And go to McDonald's."
"You're kinda square, Yuki," Janique said. "I like that."
"Hey, if you want to have real fun, you need to have a solid foundation.
I don't plan on ever having a straight job."

"Sage advice. Priceless. I'll keep that in mind," Janique said. "We have to go, Yook," Chris said. "We love you."
"I love y'all, too! Have a safe flight, okay?" "Okay," Janique said, kissing her. "Promise."
   All three exchanged kisses again, this time more passionately, and then they departed for the tarmac. Once they had made it onto the plane, they sat in their assigned seats and relaxed.
   Before she stowed the ice chest away, Janique snuck a peek inside. When she took the lid off, Hazel's bloody head stared up at them. Her eyes had been pushed in, and there was a note held by a safety pin that penetrated both lips.
It read simply, "Love".


   On her way back home, Yuki felt her stomach in the cab and smiled. She was a trifle queasy. It was too early to be morning sickness, she thought, but she had no doubt that she was pregnant.
Chris's? The deliveryman's? She didn't care. Either way, she was happy. And wouldn't they be surprised when she showed up with a baby...

Never The End

Other books by Jason Z. Christie:
Radar Love - (Ultimate Hustle Volume I) Pageburner
Perfect Me - Perfection Labs Volume I Cure For Sanity - Perfection Labs Volume II Hurricane Regina
Six Stories Short and Sweet Poetry: A Love Story Zombie Killa
