Chapter 1 – Prail
Prail Abraxis sat in her lab, going over the numbers from the previous day. From all indications, Project X was a go. One of her private interests, it represented the culmination of her life’s work thus far. She was planning on making a twin brother for herself, which was probably against the rules. She managed to evade a lot of them, though. Her latest interest was permitted with silent consent.

Praxis, her home world, was at the center of a great falsehood. Praxalians ran the machines that projected recordings of the former inhabitants of a planet that had been destroyed in a great cataclysm. She lacked specific details as to what exactly had occurred, but she was assured by her elder that it was horrific, and that she really shouldn’t look into it any further. When she’d made repeated, insistent inquiries, Prail hit a wall of silence. Consequently, uncovering the truth was also one of her pet projects. 

Her job was an easy one, at least by Praxalian standards. It was an intern position, usually held for one hundred and eighty standard cycles, the equivalent of about nine months. Prail herself was sixteen hundred and twenty cycles old, and had already served ninety-six.

The remnants of Earth, which was the penal colony of Praxis, pre-cataclysm, was contained in the Grand Banks. This was the planet’s central processing core, where she and her family dwelled. The Earthtwoians were projected in nine dimensions onto the surface of the planet: the X, Y, and Z planes, time, and their five limited senses.

Three suns orbited Praxis. Prail’s primary task was writing the functions and subroutines that insured they was manipulated so no one on the surface was exposed to more than one sun at a time. It was boring work. Much of the computational routines were long-since written. In fact, there hadn’t been an unforeseen convergence the entire time she had been on the assignment.

So she had ample opportunity to amuse herself. Not only that, but Prail had access to incredibly powerful hardware and software. A common activity for Praxalians in Prail’s position, taboo though it was, was to temporarily take over the body of an Earth2 citizen for a joyride. They would usually provoke the hapless avatar for a while, manipulate them into doing something stupid, and then abandon them to their fate, heedless of the damage caused.

Prail was different. She found a particularly hopeless individual and infused them with secret knowledge, and inner peace and calm. When she left them, they never knew she was there in the first place. But they were fully transformed. Some did go insane. Some suicided. But for the most part, it was a net gain. She slept with a Clean Conscience.

A Clean Conscience was a Sirius Cybernetics Corporation pillow that filtered out bad dreams.

Her friends, if you could call them that. You couldn’t. Her peers, if you-. No, she was peerless. Other Praxalians manipulated Earthtwoians into committing horrible violence and sexual atrocities. It was sort of given a pass on Praxis because they knew that the poor Earthlings weren’t real anyway, so no one cared, generally speaking.

Prail cared.

In the course of her investigative work, she’d come across the Bible. It fascinated her, and she felt it held the key to understanding what went wrong on Earth one point oh. As near as she could tell, there were sixteen hundred and twelve different conflicting versions floating around. Yet, in each one, she found snatches of truth and beauty.

She often wondered how a planet could have destroyed itself when it had such a glorious gift in its possession. The Bible only spurred on her love of reading, and she devoured great chunks of ancient Earth literature and culture. Eventually she uncovered what she considered a fatal flaw in the algorithms that made up Earth2: there was almost no culture to speak of, and most of it was decidedly lowbrow.

She yearned for a promotion, so she could begin to correct what she considered programming errors. Patience was a vital part of Praxalian culture, and Prail knew that time was approaching, but it didn’t mean she had to wait idly by until then.

She wrote code in some of her spare time, filing it away in her private server space, so she could merge it with the source tree later. But it was extremely tricky code to write. How could you author A.I. that was greater that the sum of its parts? Her initial attempts involved “borrowing” bits from great innovators of the past: a little da Vinci, a little Shakespeare, a little De Sade.

But when she executed the sandboxed software, she was always disappointed with the results. However, there was hope. As her code base grew, the logic began to improve itself.

She simply added more to the mix. Robert A. Heinlein, H.P. Lovecraft. A somewhat obscure author named Stephen King. As she did so and studied the results, Prail realized it was a matter of varying their motivations. She was fairly thunderstruck by the revelation. It was a huge bug in the codebase. She knew it would be an easy fix. She was going to be famous. But how would she be able to check the fixes in?

All changes to the source had to get past MotherBrain, and no one was allowed to upstage MotherBrain. Prail needed a hero, a champion. She was still considered too young and small to be of much consequence on Praxis, which tended to venerate the sizable and muscular. She hadn’t even found her voice, yet.

She had big shoes to fill. All of her older sisters had done great things: Hera, Andromeda, Demeter, Aphrodite, Venus. And those were the few she could name offhand. Prail probably had a hundred big sisters, each one a huge overachiever.

She felt impossibly small. At times like these, she retreated into game writing. When she wrote games, the Praxalians of her own age recognized her as a unique genius. It was possible to write specific rulesets and scenarios, and then allow other Praxalians to jump into them via Earthtwoians. Prail’s games allowed other Praxalians to transcend who they were, for a time.

Every game she wrote required extensive play testing. She was currently juggling seven: Death Race 2000, Barbarians, Survival of the Fittest, Construction Master, Reaper Madness, Big Top, and a Heavy Metal MMORPG.

The games, at least, let Prail take her mind off of the bigger issues she struggled with. She was toying with the concept of a writer sim, but that led her back to the sticky wicket of self-innovating A.I. code, and she hit the wall there.

Poor Prail even fretted over her hobbies.
Chapter 2 – President Gorlax
President Gorlax was in fine form. He’d already executed some seventeen staffers, and it wasn’t even time for fourth dinner. He considered calling his school chum and press secretary Vnew Vreal for a pick-up game of Murder Death Kill, but his heart wasn’t in it. Everyone always let him win, except when they sensed that he wanted to lose. Even that was unsatisfying.

He thought of beautiful Prail Abraxis of Praxis, and regained his bearings, somewhat. Prail, a combination of “pretty” and “frail”, was his polar opposite. The Praxalians were beautiful, serene, cultured and loved justice.

Conversely, President Gorlax was self-elected ruler-forever of the Gortician race, of the planet Gortician. They were pretty egocentric. They were also extremely blood-thirsty. That is to say, literally blood-thirsty. Their blood requirements were so steep, Gortician continually churned out hundreds of thousands of new warriors to overthrow planets, purely to drain the residents of blood.

Nothing was wasted. Eyes were eaten as casually as grapes, or dried into almost-raisins. The flesh was usually used to feed the n’ger, a popular three-headed Gortician house pet, similar to the Cerberus of Greek legend, but more evil. The Gortician ruling class dined strictly on organs, brains, and reconstituted bones. The bones were freeze-dried, and then later re-boiled into a tough, chewy noodle concoction, along with chunks of brain, liver, and kidney.

It was messy work, being a chef on Gortician. So messy, the cooks ultimately gave up on wearing clothes, their apparel was so gore-streaked. Consequently, you could identify a Gortician chef by the fact that he was naked, and his skin had a sickening red hue that simply would not wash off.

President Gorlax wondered what his poet-player buddy, Sherman Oakes was doing, and if he should trouble him for romantic advice. Romance was utterly foreign to the Gortician obviously, best left to Earthlings and homosexuals.

###

The mad poet Sherman Oakes sat in the back of his AutoBus, whizzing about at four thousand miles an hour as he composed his latest missive. Through an odd quirk of fate, and numerous assassinations ordered by celestial neighbor and homeboy President Gorlax, Sherman actually did write the laws of Earth2, as it was known to some.

Luckily for them, Oakes partied a lot, wrote precious few laws, and forgot most of them the next day. Still, he felt like a fraud, being so bloody rich for manipulating twenty-six characters, and sometimes making them rhyme. Not so guilty that he would consider giving the money back, but still. The deeper irony was that he was single, and had terrible luck with women. He guzzled a glass of two-hundred-year-old scotch and tossed off a brief poem.

Loneliness
By Sherman Oakes

I’m so alone
There seems to be no point
At times
Drink Lucky Lager


Much of Sherman Oakes’s income was derived from writing jingles and ad copy. He referred to himself at parties as a literary prostitute. Ironically, he was so cultured, culture bored him to the point of gritting his teeth whenever he encountered it. He had seriously considered having his eyes and ears removed, at one point, the ennui was so great.

But his romantic core, though shrunken, persisted in driving him along in the hopes that he would one day meet his feminine equal. Or, barring that, that he would be rich enough to purchase one from Praxis.
Chapter 3 – Vnew Vreal
The chief exports of Praxis were Perfections. The galaxy’s ultramega, hellatop rich came to the Praxalians to purchase bodies and minds. If you had the creds, you could buy just about anything. Praxalians sometimes held open houses, whereby clients could peruse the latest models, each wearing a price tag. Those that didn’t wish to be bothered simply wore a googol tag, meaning that they couldn’t be bought. The extremely rebellious, heretical to Praxalian school of thought, wore no price tag whatsoever.

Prail wore none, of course.

But custom body-making was the service that made Praxis the multiverse’s number one travel destination.

###

Vnew Vreal was pulling his hair out. Each day, President Gorlax the uberpotent created such havoc before lunch that, as chief media advisor, he often had to work late into the night, picking up the pieces.

And it wasn’t exactly a job that he had asked for in the first place. Careers on Gortician were handed out by Ironfist, a background program that found the best person for each job, and then assigned them the role. After that, it was sink or swim. On Gortician, a promotion was survival. Firings were literal. You were incinerated, and your successor’s first job was sweeping your ashes up for Ned’s Atomic Dustbin, Gortician’s recycle center.

President Gorlax was so rich and sadistic, he didn’t merely purchase bodies to rape and kill, he purchased entire races. He’d commissioned a subclass with distinguishing characteristics that marked them as perpetual targets. His deep pockets gave him preferred customer status on Praxis, which is where he first laid eyes upon Prail.

Fortunately for the race of scapegoats he’d developed, President Gorlax had one fuck of a case of ADD. ADD was a Gortician malady that developed in the crazy rich. It stood for analog-digital-digital. No one, not even the planet’s top scientists, knew what the second digital layer was for. And President Gorlax wouldn’t exactly sit still for testing.

The end result was that his race of target lifeforms walked around without purpose. They were developed for sex and violence, and then largely left to fester in the darkness alone. Sucked to be them. So, every day the whole ugly mess fell into Vnew Vreal’s lap. It was a particularly thorny issue, because President Gorlax stored the bulk of his human cattle on Earth2, and each tiny reverberation from his actions echoed across the multiverse, causing massive problems for the Praxalians that stewarded the planet.

Vreal was caught in the middle. He issued communiqués and apologies. He rewrote history. He even cried actual tears on selected occasions. But nothing could ever fully erase the actions of President Gorlax, who loved to kill. The Gortician loved to kill so much, it was what they called love on their planet. This made interfacing with the graceful, hippy-dippy Praxalians extremely complicated, to say the least.

Vnew worked on a carefully worded letter of resignation, but it never seemed quite right, and would be rejected in advance, so he never got around to submitting it.
Chapter 4 – Reaper Madness
Prail was playtesting Reaper Madness. It was inspired in part by Piers Anthony’s On a Pale Horse and Eugene Jarvis’s seminal game Robotron, with a dash of The Sims.

It was a two-joystick affair, isometric three-quarter top down view. You were Death, aka the Grim Reaper, and your job was to harvest souls. The levels were progressive, one through ninety-nine. At its core was the premise that everyone hated The Sims. You would run in wearing a black cowl, swinging a scythe, and dispatch the people occupying each level. However, not everyone was marked for death, and you were penalized for killing the wrong people. Each level contained more people than the last, starting with the training level, a single room containing a single person, all the way through Armageddon, in which you had to kill ‘em all. 

You moved the reaper with the left controller, and swung or threw the scythe with the right. Jumping was achieved by pushing down on the left stick, while depressing the right made the weapon fly out in the direction you were facing.

Prail worked diligently at creative level design. For instance, there were driving levels. Death rode a pale horse, naturally, but it could transform into a red Isuzu Amigo jeep as necessary. On a few levels, there was someone ahead of you on the highway destined to crash and die, and you had to catch up with them by the time they did so, lest their souls go uncollected. Mainly, Death just rode or drove from scenario to scenario. Each level contained more souls than the last, which led to a few design problems. Currently, the Armageddon level was unwinnable, because by using Death’s conventional weapons, the sims multiplied faster than you could kill them.

Early playtesters found controversy in the killing of women and children, but their complaints fell upon deaf ears. In fact, Prail liked to see them squirm. The current favorite levels were the burning building, and the crashing airplane. Level eighty-eight was a mammoth skyscraper that was on fire ala the old Earth film The Towering Inferno. You raced from bottom to top, harvesting everyone. The combination of smoke, fire, heat, and adrenaline was thrilling.

An earlier level, thirty-three, placed you on an airplane plummeting to Earth while the pilot struggled to regain control. Some players opted to kill the pilot and copilot first, interestingly enough. Either way, Death survived. But players who played it as Prail intended it were rewarded with a view of Death leaping from the plane with his shimmering black parachute.

She pondered the Armageddon problem and decided that she would probably just use some crude hack. Death could freeze the level for sixty seconds, but that wasn’t much help when you had an entire planet to eradicate. At least game design took her mind off her work and personal problems for a while.
Chapter 5 – The Mad Poet
“Sherm, what up?”

“Gorlax, my nigga! What’s happenin’?”

“S.O.S. You know. Listen, I need this girl’s heart.”

“Uh, you’re the fuckin’ Gortician, dun…”

“Naw, shit ain’t like that. I need this bitch to fall totally in love with me ‘n shit.”

“Whoa, whoa, buddy, I know you’re president and all, and no one opposes you, but reel it the fuck in. No female wants to be talked about like that. It lacks dignity.”

“Word?”

“Correct. Women prefer a rarified air. Grace. Beauty. Tenderness.”

“What the fuck is that shit?” Gorlax asked.

“Go ahead and look them up, I’ll wait.”

“Fuck that, yo. I just need some fuckin’ poems.”

Sherman Oakes sighed. “I guess. I’ll need cash, of course. Well, creds. You know. On the barrelhead.”

“Cool. Money, I got. Elegance? None whatsoever.”

“So, what’s the topic?”

“You da’ fuckin’ poet!”

“Be that as it may,” Sherman said.

“How about, um, ‘Empire of Perversion’, do you think that would attract her attention?”

“Ordinarily, I’d say no. But you are President Gorlax of Gortician. Any woman interested in you would have to be a little twisted. So yes. I’ll write it.”

“My man. How does this shit work? Do I pay by the word, or what?”

“You’re really new at this, aren’t you? Generally, poems are given away in exchange for love, or friendship. Intangible assets. My corporate clients give me stipends.”

“Stipends?”

“Like a retainer. Let’s just play it by ear, okay? I know you’re good for it.”

“Bet,” President Gorlax said, and hung up.

###

Shit, Sherman thought, now I have to write a poem.


Empire of Perversion
By Sherman Oakes

I survey this penis landscape
Rotting flesh
Mountains of bones
In this hell
That I call home
My quill doth drip blood
Any wonder, then
That I’m alone?
As I sit here munching eyeballs
Sleeping on a bag of bones
There’s only one thing missing
Something so pretty and so frail
I’d give my entire kingdom
For the girl whose name is Prail

Chapter 6 – MotherBrain

MotherBrain detected future disturbances. Such events were always part of her plan, but she ran through all possible permutations, anyway. She didn’t get to be ruler of Praxis by leaving things to chance, except in matters where the outcome didn’t affect her overall design. 

This President Gorlax of Gortician was a real wildcard, which suited MotherBrain just fine. She liked it rough. Still, it never hurt to peek at the futures. Just in case. That was merely basic game theory. Her concern was his interest in her little girl Prail. Of course, Praxalians were taught from conception to fight back hard on all levels if they even imagined a threat. But MotherBrain was equal parts mother and brain, as her designation suggested.

What interested her most at that point was what the product of such a union might be. She couldn’t plan beyond that. At least until she’d studied his DNA thoroughly, and it was proving very difficult to get ahold of thus far. If MotherBrain had any limitations, it was in her inability to manipulate the physical realm beyond Praxis. She would have to bring him there, she decided.

###

President Gorlax was having another epic bad day. For one thing, he was never sure what the wrong side of the bed was, so he generally woke up in a murderous rage, and proceeded from there. He made a note to purchase a round, rotating bed and see if that helped. As it was, he had to have a specially constructed one to incinerate whatever remained of his previous night’s dates. He swore each time that he wouldn’t take big bites out of them as he was fucking them, but he invariably awoke sticky, with a bad taste in his mouth. Earth girls were greasy.

Each time he got back from the shower his bed was empty, and freshly made. God bless the Sirius Cybernetics Corporation, he thought. He rummaged through the pantry for something to feed Petunia, his n’ger. All he had left were two freeze-dried skulls, which Pet swallowed whole before they hit the ground.

The one bright spot in his morning was when he checked the mail slot. It wasn’t so much a mail slot as it was a quantum teleportation device, but it looked like a mail slot, so it was really easier and less wordy to just call it a mail slot.

Why Sherman Oakes would pay costly quantum postage rates instead of sending an e-mail or fax, he couldn’t fathom. But who could know the mind of a poet? He read it and chuckled his evil chuckle, which he’d been working on. It was perfect. 

President Gorlax dialed the morgue, which was the Gortician equivalent of a florist, and assumed his nice guy voice.

“Yes, hello, this is President Gorlax. I’d like a bouquet of fresh baby fingers, assorted colors, sent to Prail Abraxis of Praxis, along with this poem.” He recited Oakes’s words from memory verbatim. “Signed, ‘With Love, President Gorlax of Gortician’.”

Luckily for our story, The Sirius Cybernetics Corporation’s Quantum Matter Transference Device correctly translated the baby toes into assorted carnations and baby’s breath en route. The poem, however, remained unchanged.

Whistling a happy tune, President Gorlax wandered around the presidential mansion, looking for servants to slaughter.

###

Prail’s play-testing session was interrupted by receipt of the flowers and poem from President Gorlax. One splendid feature of the Sirius Cybernetics Corporation’s Quantum Matter Transference Device was that objects arrived before they were sent, doing away with niggling plot holes as they occurred.

The flowers were beautiful, of course. She inhaled deeply and smiled, her deepest pleasure centers stimulated to the maximum. But she wasn’t sure what to make of the poem.

Prail supposed that in Gortician terms, it was probably the most delicate piece of prose ever to be emitted from that planet. In Praxalian terms, it left something to be desired.

If you’ll check (go ahead, we’ll wait), you’ll see that it makes no mention of flowers, love, sunsets, or even hearts. Hearts, at least, would have fit the scheme. Still, good-hearted Prail opted to take it in the spirit intended. He obviously really liked her a lot. A president of an entire planet! Her head filled with honeysuckle and butterflies, tied up in rainbows.  She began planning their wedding, honeymoon, designing their dream home and garden, and naming their kids.

###

Vnew Vreal was suiciding again. He usually did so on Saturday nights, due to the stress he had acquired during the workweek. Of course, he still woke up the next morning, refreshed and ready to face the upcoming fiascos. 

###

Sherman Oakes needed to dry out, have a decent meal, and perhaps have sex. He phoned ahead, and set the AutoBus route to Earth. It was really Earth2, of course, but he wasn’t privy to such information. Still, it made for a decent vacation destination, in most respects. There was one glaring problem that made him wish for an alternate resort planet. The dwellers there were dumber than rocks, for the most part.

He’d say dumber than a box of rocks, but Oakes knew some pretty smart boxes. Come to think of it, most of the rocks he knew also had more wit and verve than the average Earthling. 

At least they could cook, and the beds were clean and soft. They did make useful sex objects, but if he wanted to have sex with brainless coma victims or straight-up corpses, he’d go to a brothel on Gortician. His quest to meet a woman of substance continued. 
Chapter 7 – Classic Gaming
Prail was aquiver. She’d never had a suitor before, a gentleman caller. She was so nervous at the prospect, she cranked out three quick games to relax. All were updated classics. It was rewarding to Prail to write updates to classic games. It was sort of like buying a cheap paint-by-numbers set at the Earth2 Wal-Mart and ending up with a Michelangelo when you were finished. She could turn off her brain and just do, for a change. 

Prail found that the simplest way to update a game, eight-bit being her favorite source material, was to take them from two to three dimensions. She had always wondered why no one had made Conway’s Game of Life in 3D, so she started there. Prail wrote it in an hour, in sixteen lines of code, impressing herself. And she was notoriously difficult to please. 

She resisted the urge to update the graphics or add sound. It started out as asterisks, and it seemed almost blasphemous to fuxor with that aesthetic, so she left well enough alone. 

Next, she wrote Snafu 3D, an update of an old Mattel Intellivision game. In it, multiple flatworms moved around the screen leaving trails and trying to trap one another. If you hit a wall or a trail, game over. It had inspired many clones, including the light cycle sequence in Tron, a favorite on Praxis. Prail liked the simple complexity it possessed. 
 
This project took longer, more than two hours, mainly because the jump to 3D required a lot of intelligent camera work and a new controller configuration. She toyed with the colour scheme a bit, and then reverted it to the original primary colors of red, blue, yellow, and green.

Feeling somewhat pleased with herself, Prail took a deep breath and got herself a glass of nectar. Her final update before naptime (Praxalians didn’t attend full sleep cycles, but instead took Edison-like catnaps every few hours) was the Activision 2600 game Barnstorming. 

It was nice and relaxing. You flew an ancient biplane over windmills, fences, and through barns. As far as Prail could recall, that was it, really. But as an art project, it really gave her a chance to spread her wings. She recreated the original in 2D as best as she could remember and then tucked it away as an Easter egg. 

From there it was child’s play to convert it to 3D. But here she really began to shine. Prail increased the framerate, giving everything a dreamlike feel to it. Then she added the option to view the game through various filters: Pointillism, Mondrian, Abstract Impressionist, even Cubist. It was almost pure art.

Feeling pleased, Prail tucked herself in under her desk and closed her eyes for a while.

###

Vnew Vreal woke up bright and early Monday morning after his suiciding, worrying about the far-reaching implications of President Gorlax’s temper tantrums, which regularly shook things up from one end of the multiverse to the other, affecting the lives of untold scores of people of every conceivable race, ethnicity, and planetary origin, and decided, fuck it, he was calling in sick. 
Chapter 8 – Vacation
Mad poet Sherman Oakes’s AutoBus touched down on Earth2, unbeknownst to him. That is to say he thought it was regular Earth. And he really wasn’t a mad poet, to be sure, more like slightly miffed. But no one respected “slightly miffed poet Sherman Oakes”, so he let it ride as mad. It was how he gave props to fellow mad poet Abdul Alhazred.

Abdul, Paul to his friends, had written the Bible. As far as Sherman knew, anyway. It was called the Necronomicon, and he slept with it under his pillow. People had a lot of confused ideas about religion in deep space, but it enabled rather than hindered them.

The AutoBus, being entirely out of scale with Earth2, crushed a few shanties, so Oakes tipped heavily. At least the flowerbeds were unharmed. He was at the Hyatt Regency on Maui, one of his all-time favorite resorts. He checked into his suite and then spent a week reading, stepping out of his room once to stare at a solar eclipse. 

But the food was exquisite. Steak, lobster, more steak. Cheerios. Fresh fruit. Earth has his home planet beat all to hell in the food department. Not that he could recall his home planet as such. All he remembered was that the food was rather bland, and there was no art to be found.

Plus, Earth had free pens and paper. Each time he visited an institution such as a bank or restaurant, Sherman gathered up great handfuls of pens and notepads, and no one looked at him sideways. He hoarded them. It was no small part of his success, being able to turn free pens and paper into millions of creds weekly. 

On the last day of his stay, he considered ordering four Hawaiian whores, and then thought better of it and ordered only two instead. He was never going to be able to afford the services of Praxis if he kept pissing his money away.

###

President Gorlax was spent. He’d just eradicated another eleven servants when he realized that he’d have to eat cold cereal, or wait until lunch arrived. Other than the hot and cold running blood on tap, of course. He drew a streaming cuppa and sat fuming.
Chapter 9 – Construction Master
Prail, as always, awoke to perfection. She yawned and stretched, enjoying the feel of the sheets and pillows on her hairless body. Were she not so driven by her hobbies, she might have stayed in bed a while longer.  But she was no layabout. She pulled up her displays and triple-checked the trajectories of the suns. Then she checked a fourth time. After the fifth time, she was satisfied that nothing terrible was going to occur on Earth2 during her watch. Her mind began to wander over to her lovely flowers and poem, her head again filling with birdsongs and sweet fragrances.

All at once, Prail had a brilliant idea. Without consulting MotherBrain or any of her sisters, she fed a few lines of raw code into her terminal. The three suns on the surface world of Praxis moved to occupy the same space. To insure it didn’t psychologically scar the Earthtwoians, she launched a script to erase the last ten seconds of everyone’s memory.

Praxalians didn’t need suns anyway, living at the core of the planet. To Prail’s delight, nothing happened. No earthquakes, fires, floods, hurricanes. No disasters at all, in fact. If MotherBrain noticed, her silence was consent, which was great. If you heard the voice of MotherBrain, you were usually in a spot of trouble. 

Prail checked her trajectories, six times, now. Even a slight deviation in one of the suns would eventually show up as an anomaly in the skies of Earth2. The residents there were very superstitious about happenings in their skies. Just to be on the safe side, she copied and pasted the trajectory and coordinates of one sun to the other two, and locked them all in. Done and done. And done.

Prail pulled up her editor, finally free to write games full-time. She was feeling generous and calm, so she began tinkering with Construction Master. It was, Prail thought, the ultimate guy game. You started off tasked with building a treehouse, using components gathered during sub-quests. The points early on were cool points, based on style and fun alone. Your avatar started out as a youth and aged as you progressed. 

From there you built birdhouses, lemonade stands, doghouses, and the like, earning money and skills along the way. When you were old and able enough, you entered the construction trade proper as an apprentice. The projects grew into massive hydroelectric dams, powerplants, and skyscrapers. No matter which discipline you chose, mason, plumber, sheetrocker, electrical, etcetera, you were expected to work your way up to project manager or superintendant. The beauty of it was the scalable complexity.

You could get lost in the endless details. Prail knew men liked to tinker, measure, and count. Construction Master offered ample opportunity for that, with the advantage of being achievement based. She considered adding pissing contests and dick measuring, and decided against it. Beyond the craftsman aspect, you needed planning, budgeting, and people-handling skills if you wanted to make it to the top. You could fight and argue to your heart’s content if that was your thing. She was especially proud of the bathroom subgame Johnnie on the Spot, which let you do custom graffiti in private outhouses. 

She was secretly collecting the best drawings and bits of doggerel from the beta testers. To her amazement and amusement, the end users formed factions, alliances, and political views, using the outhouses as message boards and forums for debate. It was a bit like Praxis’ MentalNet, the invisible network all Praxalians were tied into, but more crude, akin to the BBS and Internet systems of Earth2. That’s where she learned to let A.I. work for her. 

What she considered her crowning achievement in that game was the fact that the in-game prices were tied to real-world prices on Earth2, giving it an unlimited lifespan and relevance. Prail loved the idea of a hands-off project that continued to evolve on its own.
Chapter 10 – O.D. DrugWar
Sherman Oakes was preparing to lift off, and so he presented the hoteliers with a poem in lieu of actual creds. 


Space
By Sherman Oakes

Space is big
Space is dark
Like a negro
In the park


Oakes had to marvel at his economy of words. It was a twenty-thousand-dollar poem, which broke down to one thousand six hundred and sixty-six dollars per word. Not too shabby. He regretted that Burma Shave Corporation was no longer extant. Having detoxed on Earth, it was time to motherfuckin’ retox. He slapped the autopilot and called the multiverse’s biggest drug dealers, High-C and O.D. DrugWar. 

They were brothers who had climbed out of the muck of Earth’s ghettos to become self-made men via extortions, bombings, kidnappings, rapes, wholesale murder, and mindless destruction. Plus they always had the best dope at the best prices, and hot space whores, besides. They were real cool dudes, too.

“Yo, ‘dis O.D.”, a familiar voice said.

“O.D. DrugWar, my nigga! Illest motherfucker on this side of the spiral arm. Howzit?” 

“Sherm?”

“Yar. Whazzup?”

“S.O.S. You know. Whatchu need?”

“Sheet. Whatchu got?”

“Fuck. I’m kinda high. Uh-” He consulted a list.

“Corellian Krull, Danko, Hate, Love, Pegasus Powder, and Krellian Stardust.”

“Sounds good. What’s the difference between the Krull and the Stardust?”

“Confidentially, not much. One’s from Corel, the other’s from Krell. They’re both synaptic explosives and spirit elevators.”

“Well, which do you prefer?”

“I hit that Stardust. Can’t fuck with no Krell, myself.”

“What’s the difference between Love and Hate?”

“A thin line,” O.D. said.

“Cool, cool. Slide me four keys of Dank and the ‘dust.”

“Dag, Sherm, that’s-“

“I don’t give a fuck about the prices. C.O.D. And don’t fuck me.”

“Come on, hardcase. We didn’t get here fucking the client.”

“Word, word,” Sherman agreed. “Where’s your brother at?”

“In the lab cooking up hot new shit. Pure fire. He can’t be reached.”

“Sorry to hear that. Give him my regards.”

He hung up and wondered if maybe he should have tried some Love. Then again, he heard it was heavily addictive. 

###

L’viv, like MotherBrain, sensed an upcoming conflict. Unlike MotherBrain, she couldn’t portend the future as such. So she just wrung her hands and worried. Long, long ago, she had given up her twin sons. As a result, L’viv was tried and convicted of tampering with the males, a federation offense. Her sentence was banishment to the penal planet Faggotron for life. 

Now she knew there was troubling trouble ahead involving her sons. It was a real pity, too, because by law, they were the only two who could rescue her. Not only did she not know how to contact them, she was no longer sure what they looked like. But she really hoped they weren’t up to shenanigans. 

L’viv hated life on Faggotron. In the ultimate punishment, she occupied a male body on a male planet. It was disgusting. Fat, ugly, hairy men for as far as the eye could see. She remembered when she liked men. Vaguely, she qualified. Now those memories were fading, and what she really wanted was to see pert young titties and a fuzzy little snatch. 

Maybe it was the body she was in, but none of the other faggots (What? They lived on Faggotron, for fuck’s sake) seemed to miss women at all. They were just so distasteful. L’viv started each day by puking and then crying about it. Then she cleaned it up, and cried about that. None of the faggots ever cried.

###

President Gorlax received custom junk mail from Praxis, penned by MotherBrain herself:


“Dear <Preferred Customer>President Gorlax</Preferred Customer>,

As the single biggest client Praxis has ever had, we would like to extend to you this very special exclusive offer: An all-expenses paid weekend on Earth2, where you can view our exciting timeshare properties, <Not Lying>no strings attached</Not Lying>.

With the utmost sincerity,
MotherBrain of Praxis, ULC.”


President Gorlax smiled for the first time in his infinite life. Well, there’s no ruse like an old ruse, he thought. He’d fallen for the timeshare hustle once before. Once. He’d purchased a timeshare in Port Arthur, Texas. Never again he swore, the time before. Now that he understood the vagaries and complexities, he could game the system. 

He sent a mental R.S.V.P. via his Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Thoughtkajigger. At a mere eighteen million creds, he had nothing but disdain for anyone who didn’t own one, and he wondered how he’d lived without it. Of course, he had the only one on the planet, so that meant he had to generate contempt and disdain continually, just to keep the supply side up. 

But a free trip to Earth2? He was there, dude. As a preferred customer, President Gorlax was privy to the Earth-Praxis conundrum. And precious, beautiful Prail was on Praxis. 
###
Vnew Vreal pulled the covers up over his head. 
Chapter 11 – Star Hustle
Sherman Oakes was high like a motherfucker. He’d received his order from O.D. DrugWar via the Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Matter Teleportation Object in his glovebox, and even sent a gratuity, he was so pleased. High-C only made superlab shit. Oakes constructed a spacecraft, because that’s what he called joints, with a fistful of Danko and a generous smattering of Pegasus Powder. Then he pondered the question of how much Stardust to add to the mix. 

Sherman had a terrible habit of not doing his research before trying experimental new drugs. Being a poet tended to infuse one with a devil-may-care-but-I-sure-the-fuck-don’t attitude. He added four grams, as it was a small spliff, and then added two more, just to be on the unsafe side. He blasted off. It was fortunate that the AutoBus was an AutoBus because he was a terrible pilot, high or not. And he was decidedly high now.

So high, he drunk dialed Parabola Blue, the multiverse’s biggest and filthiest Feelie star. Well, he didn’t drunk dial, but, you know. 

“Parab, what’s up?”

“Oh, hello, Sherman,” she said. “How are you?”

“Fucking wasted. Want to party?”

“I can’t, Sherm. I don’t do that anymore.“

“But you don’t do it any less, right?”

“It’s just that I work for Star Hustle now, and my boss is a huge control freak bitch. Wait, is this a secure channel?”

“Uh, no,” he said.

“I’m just kidding! All praise Janique!” Parabola said in an effort to cover her tracks.

“Wow,” Sherman sniffed, toking on his cone. “I’ve never known you to be so serious about your career before. I mean, the sex side, sure. You’re the best zero-gee ass gymnast this end of the multiverse.”

“Flatterer,” she said. “Go on…”

“And when it comes to money, you’re the greediest, grubbingest, grasping Venusian cunt of all time. Literally able to pick up a wet dollar bill off of a concrete floor with your cooze.”

“Sherman, you’re so sweet. Stop it.” Parabola paused. “Go on…”

“And defensively, you can rapid-fire ten ping-pong balls with an intensity that puts even Gnip-Gnop to shame.” Gnip-Gnop was her great-grandmother and spiritual mentor.

“Careful, Shermie, you’re going overboard. Don’t peak too soon…”

“Your pussy, ass, mouth, and third hole are the sweetest, dispensing pure sucralose, bon-bons, and spun sugar…”

“Oooh,” she said, temperature rising.

“Your sexual PSI powers, on a graduated scale, completely crack the bell curve, making such childish attempts at measurement meaningless and without merit.” 
He stopped.

“And?”

“Erm,” he said. “I’ve got Danko, Pegasus Powder, and Stardust. Great mountains of it.”

“Aww. I’m not supposed to do that stuff, Sherm. I’m in training.”

“Damn, Parabola. For what, the Space Olympics and shit?”

The Space Olympics was the multiverse’s premier athletic event, with contests ranging from marathon fucking and mental weightlifting to drug consumption and verse recitations. The pride of entire planets rode on the outcomes.

“I wish. I’ll probably be too busy to compete this cycle. It’s just that Star Hustle ULC is a very cut-throat organization. Stakes is high. There’s more than money involved.”

“More than money?” he asked.

“Yes, Sherman. Honor.”

“Hon-er?” he asked, trying to lighten the mood.

“Oh, forget, it,” she said, clamming up. “I knew you wouldn’t understand.”

“Awww, come on, Baby Blue, you know me. I’s just funnin’. Joshin ya’. Yankin’ your teats. Slappin’ yo’ cat. Bitin’ yo’ az-“

“Enough,” Parabola said. “That’s quite enough, Sherman. Thank you.”

“I’ll write you a poem…”

She sighed so loudly, the Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Viewmaster screen temporarily fogged over.

“I’ll be there in a tick. Shoot me your future co-ords. And give me the poem up front.”

“But of course,” Oakes agreed. “A lady gets her gifts up front…”

“But Parabola Blue gets paid before and after,” she finished. It was her copyrighted catchphrase.

“Let me think,” he said, and immediately recited:


And Everything Nice
By Sherman Oakes

Parabola Blue
I adore you, my sweet
When you get here
You’re all I will eat


“Oh, Sherman,” she said, “I’m on my way…”
Chapter 12 – Judas Mason
Judas Mason absorbed the transmission with interest. She was the black-hearted, icewater-veined archvillainess of the multiverse. She didn’t know or care why, she just was. And she loathed Sherman Oakes like she loathed kittens, sunshine, and balloons. That is to say with a burning passion that shot so far past rationality that it came all the way back around the scale and became entirely rational.

She switched off her Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Sub-Etha Snoop-O-Matic and considered her next move. She was playing trans-dimensional chess with President Gorlax, the only other person in the multiverse both evil and amoral enough to relate to her. 

“Double black queen to N^3,” she said coldly.

There was a pause, and then Gorlax said-

“President Gorlax,” he interrupted.

And then President Gorlax said, “Aww, bitch. You shanked my battleship. Shit.”

“You knew I would, Gortex. Play with the best, die like the rest.”

“Yeah, trick, but damn. First move out of NP minus one possibilities? That shit is wack.”

“The computer cheats,” she said coldly.

“What?”

“Nothing. Tell me, Edward Goryhands, what do you know about slightly miffed poet, Sherman Oakes?”

“Slightly  miffed? I always thought he was mad.”

“I think he’s mellowing,” Judas said.

“Hmmm. Not much, I never met him. We just chat voice. Likes to get high, fuck, travel. If there’s time, he writes a little. Why?”

“No reason. I just hate him.”

“Oh,” President Gorlax said, considering this. “I thought everyone hated everyone.”

“Actually, no. That’s a fallacy. It’s really just you and me.”

“Forever?”

“Ideally,” she said, and switched off.

She had to destroy Sherman Oakes.
Chapter 13 – Death Race 2000
Prail was debugging another of her games. While strip-mining the culture of Earth in an effort to understand why it fell, she’d uncovered a David Carradine and Sylvester Stallone vehicle, Death Race 2000. Sort of like Hanna-Barbera’s Wacky Races, it involved eight teams of drivers in a coast-to-coast race. Quite unlike Wacky Races, you scored extra points by killing people.

Prail elected to rip it off wholesale. She’d scanned in the vehicles from framegrabs and knocked them up into 3D models. She cheated a bit by only modeling the top halves of the humanoids, but had painted herself into a corner there, and was forced to backtrack. She hadn’t planned on giving the players the option to exit their cars, but after the level editor was completed, she thought better of it. 

It was almost pure suicide, exiting your vehicle in a game in which the object was to run people over, but she’d been monitoring the motivations of her alpha-testers, and had discovered a few quirks. Some of the end-users were thinking about strategies that involved getting out of their vehicles, and were frustrated that they could not, so of course that became high on the feature list. Frustrated gamers quit playing, and games only existed when they were being played, for the most part.

Prail wanted her games to be the best ever.

The other interesting quandary was that much like being the car in Monopoly, everyone wanted to be either Frankenstein or Machine Gun Joe Viterbo. She would allow only one instance of each per game. Without that limitation, she invariably ended up with four or five of one and three or four of the other. 

Unacceptable, in her eyes.

She tinkered and tweaked on the other characters and cars in an effort to make them more enticing, but was limited by the parameters of the movie, to a large degree. The best she could come up with was cool choices of music on the in-game radios, and the ability to get naked and have sex while driving. Even then, she had to extend those options to the lead characters as well.

She settled it to her satisfaction by handicapping the lead characters. She simply made them the targets of the other six teams, and weighted additional problems against them: flat tires, engine trouble. Which brought her all the way back around to the necessity of fully articulated humanoids, which was a lot of work. Luckily, Prail loved to work, and she could reuse the humanoid system in future games.

Thinking about one problem led her to a breakthrough in another game. She’d figured out how to structure the writer sim. Instead of relying on A.I. or the end user’s input, she would draw upon Earth’s pool of literature, and simply keep the knowledge of their success from the player, forcing them to work hard for their art. The stories would write themselves. The player would merely make time to write and edit, and the more time and effort they devoted to their craft, the quicker they would achieve their goals.

This led her to conceive of a way to infinitely expand her planned Heavy Metal game. It was based on the animated Earth film, which allowed for sword and sorcery as well as advanced technology. It would be a fine game on its own, but Prail wanted more. 

She decided to write wrappers for other MMORPGs, allowing players to visit other games. Once you tired of the Heavy Metal universe, you could visit, say, the Star Trek one, the World of Warcraft one, and so on, using the same character and interface.

Prail then decided to take a catnap. MotherBrain had arranged for her to escort President Gorlax on a tour of the Praxis facilities. She smiled and dreamed of dandelions.
Chapter 14 – Earth’s Dead Serial Killers
President Gorlax made a very expensive call on his very expensive Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Necronomiphone.

“Yes, hello, operator?”

“Go ahead,” a deep, booming voice said.

“Yeah, uh, I need to speak to the spirits of all of Earth’s serial killers.”

“All of them?” the deep, booming voice inquired.

“Yes, please. If it’s not too much trouble.”

“That’s a very expensive call,” it reminded him.

“Yes, I know,” he reminded it. “The narrator said that a half a page ago. I’m not stupid.”

“Then how did you manage to lose a poem in a locked room?”

“What?”

“You bloody well know what, chickenbutt,” the deep, booming voice said. It was really starting to get annoying. And it spoke slowly. Did I mention that?

“Look, are you going to connect me, or what? I have people to torture and kill, and you’re ruining the mood.”

“Need I remind you that the very expensive charges began to accrue when we first connected?”

“Just fucking connect me!” President Gorlax screamed.

“The Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Necronomiphone only allows you to speak to the dead, sir. If you want to speak to all of Earth’s serial killers, I can offer you an upgrade package. Would you like me to put you on hold while I ring the upgrades department in Calcutta?” 

President Gorlax struggled to regain his composure, and control of the conversation.

“Okay, look-”

“I can’t look, sir. This is a voice call. Would you like to go visual for double the fees?”

“No, this is fine. May I please be connected to all of Earth’s dead serial killers?”

“Very well,” the deep, booming voice said. “You’re starting to bore me, anyway.”

There was a pause, interminable, and then a voice said, “Earth’s dead serial killers. Go ahead, please.”

“Uh, you sound pretty nerdy, for all of Earth’s dead serial killers. The operator was much more ominous sounding.”

“Would you like to be reconnected, sir? I’m a composite character, and I’m doing the best that I can. It’s really not easy, being dead and all of Earth’s serial killers. No one understands. The hours are long, there’s no pay whatsoever…”

“Enough. This is my dime,” President Gorlax said, “If anyone’s going to whine, it’s going to be me.”

“Go ahead with your question, sir,”

“Erm, okay. Uh, let’s see. Got any new ways to torture and kill people?”

“Hmmm,” said the voice. “Did you try stabbing them?”

“Of course. That’s one oh one stuff.”

“Shooting?”

“With extreme prejudice.”

“Burning?”

“Yes.”

“Strangling?”

“Naturally, I mean, I strangle people while I’m sleeping, even.”

“Crushing?’

“Sure.”

“Mangling?”

“All the time.”

“Hmmmm. Can we think about this?”

“Harumph. I suppose,” said President Gorlax.

Another pause, and then, “Aha! I think we have it, sir.”

“Well, what is it?”

“We have a lot of experience in this area, sir.”

“Yes, I know. That’s why I rang you up in the bloody first fucking place!”

“Calm down, sir. We’re not obligated to help the rude.”

“You’re bloody fucking serial killers!” President Gorlax screamed.

Silence.

“Listen, I’m sorry,” President Gorlax said, defeated. “I’m having a bad day. Apparently someone stole a poem.”

“And some cookies…”

“How did you know that?”

“We’re dead, sir. We know all, see all. You know.”

“Anyway,” President Gorlax sighed, “What’s your new and innovative method of torturing and killing?”

“How about doing nothing?”

“What?”

“That’s our solution. Do nothing.”

“What?”

“Sir, we’re Earth’s dead serial killers because we got caught.”

“I’m president of a planet. I kill with utter and total impunity.”

“Be that as it may, sir. There’s the clean-up, the associated costs, the lingering guilt.”

“A. I don’t clean. B. I’m fucking filthy rich. C. What is guilt?”

“Those are mere supporting details, sir. Consider this.”

“Yes?”

“Their lives are full of pain and suffering. Many of them long for death, even if they don’t know it. Forcing them to live is the cruelest thing of all.”

President Gorlax considered this for a moment. “That has a certain twisted logic to it. Pretty vile, really. The Tao of serial killing. Kill by not killing. Impressive.”

“Well, sir, we are Earth’s dead serial killers. And we have a lot of time to think about these things, also.”

“Cool beans,” President Gorlax said. “What else? Give me a parting shot.”

“Well… Invest in jails and hospitals. Make money off of their wretched lives.”

“You dudes are sick. Thanks”

“Glad to be of service, sir.”

President Gorlax hung up before he got charged any more, and dialed Sherman Oakes.

“Fuck!” Sherman Oakes said. “What the fuck do you want?”

“I need a poem. I just racked up incredible charges on the Necronomiphone. Shoot me a quickie.”

“I’m balls deep in Parabola Blue! She charges by the stroke!”

“C’mon, be a bro…”

Sherman Oakes sighed, slowly losing his erection.


School Daze
By Sherman Oakes

The ticking clock mocks us
As we don our smocks
And prepare for the test
Heads down on your desks, children
Teacher needs her rest


“Brilliant! Thanks!” President Gorlax hung up.

“Let’s start over,” Sherman said to Parabola, on the verge of tears.
Chapter 15 – Survival of the Fittest
MotherBrain instructed Prail on how to comport herself during President Gorlax’s visit, and then left her to her work. Apparently, she approved of her solution to the three suns problem. Praxalians weren’t great at interfacing with non-Praxalians, generally speaking. And when dealing with the Gortician, all bets were off. But Prail had received minimal instruction, implying that MotherBrain had a lot of faith in her abilities.

She had bigger fish to fry, anyway. Survival of the Fittest was one of her more ambitious game projects, and that was saying a lot. The concept in a nutshell, which was funny because Praxis was fully nutless, was an animal fighting simulation. Any species could fight any other species within five connected environments: desert, forest, urban, tropical, and polar.

Certain species had advantages in their own native areas, naturally. In this game, man was a weakling, as he only had his innate abilities: claws, teeth, muscle, and brains. Using your brains to form weapons put you at a disadvantage at times, say when facing a charging mountain lion. But the combatants could go to another environment if they could outrun their pursuers.

The tricky part, where Prail needed all of her finesse, was in the woundings and killings. She wanted not only blood, but highly realistic claw and bite marks, flesh sliced open, intestines dragging on the ground, howls of agony, and battle cries full of rage.

She was taking her time with it. One advantage was that she was the only game writer on Praxis, so she had that luxury. She considered adding a water environment and decided against it. It was too complicated for an unrewarding payoff, from a price/performance standpoint. She’d save it for an add-on pack.

The most fun was in pitting different humanoid types against fearsome foes such as librarians against lions, children against elephants, little old ladies against bears. It was a relaxing romp, taking her nervous mind off of her impending visit from her suitor. Prail elected to give the businessman type a briefcase as part of his innate weaponry, and ended her coding session.

###

Vnew Vreal awoke from his self-imposed hiatus and was disturbed to find no messages, no email, and no faxes inquiring as to his whereabouts. Plus he’d overslept.

He rang President Gorlax. There was an eerie calm in the atmosphere of Gortician, something he was entirely unused to.

“Hello, President Gorlax, sir?”

“Yes?”

“It’s Vnew Vreal.”

“Yes?”

“Your press secretary?”

“Yes?”

“And best friend since high school?”

“Oh, hey! How are you?”

“Erm, okay, sir. How are things?”

“Things are generally good. It’s not really about things, though, is it?”

“What?”

“I mean, things are cool. But it’s really about interpersonal connections, isn’t it? Love, I think it’s called, and the like.”

“Is this President Gorlax?”

“Yes…”

“The President Gorlax?”

“Yes, of course. Are you okay, Vreal? Maybe you should take a sick day?”

Sick days on Gortician usually meant skipping work to do something sick.

“I’m fine, sir, really. Just a bit out of sorts, that’s all. Do you need anything today?”

“Yes, actually,” President Gorlax said. “If you want to make yourself useful, I’m going to Praxis as, uh, a special interplanetary ambassador. Write something nice up about it, would you?”

“Nice, sir?”

“Yes, thanks. There’s a lad.”

Vnew hung up. That was definitely not President Gorlax.

###

Sherman Oakes and Parabola were still engaged, giving it another go, when President Gorlax rang back a second time.

“Son of a bitch! Hello?”

“Sherm, President Gorlax again. I almost forgot. I need another romantic poem.”

“Now?”

“If it’s not too much trouble.”

“Right now?”

“Uh, please?”

Sherman Oakes was incensed, but President Gorlax had given him a blank check, so to speak. And buddy or not, he did order assassinations as casually as others ordered coffee after dinner.

“Parameters?” Sherman asked.

“Let’s see… Title: Murderous Heart. Targets: hearts, kittens, pillows, roses, sunsets, love.”

Oakes banged the receiver against the wall, sure it was defective.

“Hello?” President Gorlax asked.

“Who the fuck is this?”

“It’s me, bro. President Gorlax. Are you high?”

“Yes, of course. Neither here nor there. It just doesn’t seem like you.”

“Well, it is. Want authentication?”

“Erm, sure.”

“Well, fuck you. Too bad.” He paused. “Only President Gorlax would say something like that, right?”

Sherman had to concede he was correct.

“But your poem request is your antithesis, it’s confusing, other than the title.”

“You can do it, Shermie. You’re the best. Did I mention it was for Prail?”

“Oh,” Sherman said, “Now it sorta makes sense.”

“Can you send it to her directly, now?”

“Only if you promise not to call back.”

“Done.”

Click.

Sherman glanced over, and Parabola’s eyelids were fluttering. A model of some efficiency, she had entered a REM Cycle. A REM Cycle was a Sirius Cybernetics Corporation brain containment device that affixed to your head and let you dream about riding two-wheeled modes of transport. Feeling somewhat defeated by circumstance, Oakes dictated a poem directly to Prail, unsigned long integer style, which meant it was converted to a single huge number and then sent. It was cheaper, from a postage standpoint.


Murderous Heart
By Sherman Oakes

Lovely Prail
I want your heart
You’ll give it now
If you’re smart
Another day
Another death
Like a kitten
You steal my breath
I’ll bite your fingers
And your toes
But on your pillow
I’ll leave a rose
Swing at sunset
I give a shove
Please tell me what
Is this thing called love?


Sherman knew better than to disturb Parabola’s beauty sleep, so he climbed under the Star Blanket with her for some rest. A Star Blanket is a Sirius Cybernetics Corporation device that-. Oh, forget it.
Chapter 16 – AngVenn
Vnew did his best at composing a thrilling press release for President Gorlax’s upcoming trip to Praxis, but his heart really wasn’t in it. Nor was his head, for that matter. In fact, only his hand seemed willing, and it was clueless. He wasn’t much better off, as he had no data to work with. President Gorlax. Praxis. That was as much as he knew. Vnew Vreal decided stuff it, and just let his hand do all the work.

“Press Release – Stardate 91711-5

“Supremely illustrious and venerable president Forever President Gorlax announced today his top-secret trip to top-secret planet Praxis for undisclosed top-secret reasons. The reason for the secrecy is also top-secret. The citizens of Gortician unanimously wish him a safe, pleasant journey, and collectively hope he has a most kick-ass trip. Secretly.”

Vreal filed away digital copies in triplicate, four analog copies, threw two copies away, shredded one, and finally, ate another. He was rather compulsive. Then he sent a copy to AngVenn, his contact at ASP, the Associated Space Press.

She immediately rang him back.

“Shermie! Howfore art thou?” 

AngVenn was enamoured of creative anachronisms. Or perhaps she just thought it made her sound sophisticated. Either way, it made Vnew nervous.

“Hello, Angy,” Vnew said. “What’s up?”

“Well, I just got this press release from you, like, eighteen seconds ago, now.”

“Is there a problem?” he asked, wringing his hands. “I can rewrite it!” Stomach acids began to boil from his nostrils.

“No, nothing like that. It’s just, you know, I read a lot of press releases. I mean, a whole bunch, every day.”

“Okay…” Vnew said cautiously.

“And this is the most wonderfully empty one I think I’ve ever seen. Entirely devoid of meaning. Fraught, simply fraught with insignificance.”

“Okay…” he said.

“I mean, it’s practically gibberish, random letters, except it’s entirely coherent. Yet, as I said, wholly pointless. Bravo.”

“Really?” he asked somewhat hopefully.

“Really,” she said. “Very artful. Space Olympic-quality prose.”

“Well, thank you, AngVenn. It’s nice of you to say. Have a nice day.”

“Wait, Vnew,”

“Yes?”

“Would you please take me to dinner soon?”

Vnew Vreal was stunned.

“What?”

“Din-ner,” she said. “The meals between lunch and breakfast.”

“Erm, sure, that sounds harmless. Where?”

“Anywhere but Milliways,” she replied.

“Bauhaus?”

“Sounds like a winner.”

“Fryday?”

“A nice start to a promising weekend.”

“Okay, then. I’ll pick you up. In the evening.”

“I can’t wait.”

“Okay, then, see you, erm, then.”

He hung up before she could reply and prolong his agony.

Vnew Vreal had never been on a date before.

###

President Gorlax’s convoy was en route to Praxis when his press release whizzed by, trying to get there before he did. His Airstream Deluxe Superliner was flanked on all sides by Gortician battle squadrons, although they had no known enemies, having long ago genocided all in the vicinity who opposed them. He rode alone, however, served by robots, due to his nasty habit of ejecting his servants into space at the slightest provocation, or for no reason at all.

He woke up Sherman and Parabola.

“Fuck!”

“Aye, I need a poem. You ‘sleep?”

“Yar.”

“Pissy?”

“Yar.” 

It was yar’s revenge with Sherman today. He hadn’t orgasmed, Parabola had drained his mad money account, and he was out of dope.

“Gimme a poem. I’m halfway to Praxis.”

Sherman was beginning to wish he’d stayed in school.

“Alright. Then let me go back to sleep.”

“Yar,” President Gorlax said.


Jewel of Praxis
By Sherman Oakes

Burning sun
At planet’s core
Heating my world
Forever more
Give up your moons
And your shores
Or you’ll face
Eternal war


“Brilliant.”

Sherman switched off and climbed back in bed. Thoughtfully, Parabola didn’t charge for her sleep hours.
Chapter 17 – Barbarians
Prail was working on another epic game, ‘Barbarians’. It was based on the pre-gunpowder days on ancient Earth. She’d noticed the varied fighting styles of the different barbarian tribes from distant locations, and thought it would be fun to pit them against each other.

So far, she’d implemented Huns, Mongols, Vikings, and Vandals, and wanted to include Visigoths next. Her favorites were the Mongols and the Vikings. The Mongols were expert horsemen, small in stature. They could ride side-saddle and fire arrows with amazing accuracy. So well, she had to introduce heavy winds to handicap them.

There were two moves she was particularly enamored of. One strategy was to ride in, single-file, an army of a thousand strong. When they reached their opponents, they would fan out and form an oncoming wall of death. The other involved splitting into three brigades. The decoy group would attack head on, while the other two would circle their prey from the left and right and attack from the rear. It was a devastating move. On the steppes, their home turf, they were unbeatable. Take them out of their element, however, and the tables turned. 

In Viking villages, they met their demise.

The Vikings favored hand weapons such as swords, battleaxes, and war hammers, although they were no slouches with arrows, either. Flaming arrows. 

They also employed berserkers. Berserkers were great hulking brutes who lived only to fight and kill. They were so fierce they were kept subdued by their own kind until they were needed. Once unleashed on the battlefield, they would fly into a blood rage, snapping necks and severing spines left and right until they were killed or collapsed from exhaustion. They would even kill other Vikings.

Their secret weapon was mushrooms. The Vikings would feed amanita muscaria to their reindeer, and then collect the reindeer urine, which was filtered of toxins. Then drink it. It apparently kept them awake for days. Prail thought it was hilarious that the origin of Santa Claus and flying reindeer stemmed from use of a red and white psychedelic.

She was thinking about the Goths when a sensor sounded, indicating the approach of President Gorlax.

“Whoop, whoop,” it said.

Prail saved her work, and got nervous and dressed. Praxalians never wore clothes around each other, but gave in to the custom in order to appease other races.

###

L’viv sensed positivity in the lives of her sons, and smiled a lonely smile. One was in love and the other was getting laid.
Chapter 18 – Reunited
MotherBrain began scanning President Gorlax before he made planetfall, eager to make a decision regarding her precious Prail’s future. Already, she knew much about his genetic makeup. He was an immortal. That was good. He was also brutal as all get out. That was mostly good. Brutal males had brutal offspring, and brutal offspring survived. But President Gorlax was off the brutal charts, so this was an x-factor.

Most important to MotherBrain, he was intelligent. Prail, although she had no idea, was MotherBrain’s most brilliant progeny. She would never be happy with someone of a lesser intelligence. Well, not with a dumbass, at least.

MotherBrain was realizing she knew less about her little girl than she thought. She never communicated with her except to issues orders and directives. Of course, being incorporeal, she couldn’t exactly sit down for a spot of tea with her and discuss feelings. In fact, MotherBrain was unsure if she herself had feelings. She suspected that she merely simulated them in order to better relate to her children. It was sort of tough, being the formless mother of all.

MotherBrain guided President Gorlax in, and left his fleet in a decaying orbit just to keep them on their toes. To enter Praxis at the core of Earth2, there were several entrances in the oceans and one at each pole. That way spacecraft could pass mostly unnoticed, without ruining the minds of too many surface dwellers. Not that MotherBrain was particularly concerned with such conceits as sanity, which she found both overrated and relative.

###

As President Gorlax walked down the tunnel that led to Prail, MotherBrain interrogated him.

“Favorite program?” she asked.

“Uh, Family Blood Feud?”

“Organizations of which you are a member?”

“Let’s see,” he said. “The World Death Organization, the Death Metal Music Association. I’m also on the board of directors for Toys for Tards.”

“Hopes, dreams, aspirations?”

“Erm, none really. I’m president of a planet, with unlimited power and wealth. I’m the guy who has everything.”

“Are you single?”

“Sure. I sort of play the field. The field is littered with the bones of former girlfriends. But,” he said, “Confidentially, I am sort of interested in settling down with someone.”

“Who?”

“Erm, Prail Abraxis,” he said timidly. It was most unlike President Gorlax to be timid, say no more.

“My Prail?” MotherBrain roared.

“Erm, yes?”

A hatch opened, and there she stood, a galactic vision of loveliness. MotherBrain was gone, satisfied. President Gorlax was, at his heart, honest. It was a rare quality in much of the multiverse.

###

On another timeline, Sherman Oakes was undergoing erectile dysfunction. 

Parabola Blue sucked. She blew. She pulled and slapped. She bit and chewed. She struck lewd poses that would have embarrassed Eccentrica Gallumbits. It was no use.

“Sherman, this will not stand.”

“I know,” he said, sadly. “I’m sorry.”

“Too much space dope’s what it is,” she scolded.

“Or not enough,” he said, “It’s stress, really. I’ve been writing a lot. Five poems this week.”

“Poor baby. But I have a reputation to maintain. So let’s have it. Clock’s off,” she added.

Without the twin pressures of time and money, Sherman finally began to unwind. Soon they were going at it like space badgers. His orgasm was as explosive as the origin of the Milky Way.

“There’s a good boy,” Parabola said. “Now pay me my poem, I have to jet.”

“Aaargh!”

Ode To A Blue-Skinned Girl
I Found In My Bed
By Sherman Oakes

Lovely Parabola blew
She needed the money


“Nice!” she said, kissing his forehead. “An eleven to seven ratio. You’re really overpaying me, here.”

“Oh, go on,” he said, “You’re worth it. Sixteen hours of sweating is worth twenty seconds of my time, easily. More or less.”

“Shermie, you’ll make a fine husband some day,” she told him, exiting the airlock. “If you quit running with space whores like me. Eccentrica Gallumbits, my ass,” she was heard to say as she exited, marveling at her new poem.
Chapter 19 – Oracle Jones
Judas Mason was in a Tizzy. A Tizzy being a piece of Sirius Cybernetics Corporation exercise equipment designed to relieve violent tension.

“Fuck, fuck, fuck!” she yelled, banging on the controls.

She was detecting pleasure and satisfaction on the part of Sherman Oakes, and it was killing her. Well, not killing her. But it was mildly upsetting. And was she also being disturbed by President Gorlax? There seemed to be some connection there that she could not discern, but needed examination.

It was time, she decided, to visit Oracle.

Oracle Jones was her black friend, wise and hip. And a prostitute, but that has no bearing on our story. In fact, I’m not sure why I mentioned it. But there it is.

Black. Prostitute.

She rang her round.

“Sup, sup?” Oracle said.

“Hey girl,” Judas said.

“Bitch, what’s going down? I ain’t heard from you in a starcoon’s age.”

“Busy,” she sighed. “Terribly busy.”

“At what?”

“Being terrible. It’s really exhausting, at times. Why can’t I just be nice?”

“I dunno, why can’t you?”

“Genetics.”

“Hey, that’s racist.”

“Speciesist, dear. We’re from different planets.”

“Whatevs. Wanna come kick it?”

“I do, actually. You read my mind. Wait, define, ‘kick’ and ‘it.’ What does than mean, there?”

“Like, hang out and shit.”

“Defecate while suspended by our feet? Sounds fun, but messy. I’m with it if you are. I just want to talk about boys.”

“Gull, you so crazy. No aerial pooping. It’s an expression.”

“Like Pi-R-squared?”

“What?”

“That’s an expression. So’s a hug.”

“Bitch, you high. Get yo’ crazy ass ova heah. And bring whatever you smoking, and one o’ dem square pies. I got your hug.”

###

President Gorlax was, for once, at a loss for words. Prail had grown more lovely with each day since last he viewed her, he calculated. He double checked his math. Yep, more lovely each day. In fact, it appeared to be governed by a factorial function as the constant. He was about to calculate further when Prail said, “President Gorlax?”

Had he a heart, it would have melted. As it was, he merely experienced chest pains.

“Hello, Prail. I’m surprised you remember me.”

“Don’t be silly President Gorlax. How could I forget a president that sends me flowers and poems?”

“Please,” he said, “Call me Gor.”

Never in his unlimited lifespan had he ever allowed anyone to call him anything but President Gorlax. Even when he was a fledgling, and not even a president. The other kids hated him for it. He had them killed.

“Okay, Gor,” she said. “Won’t you come in?”

President Gorlax (the narrator was allowed no such informality) entered her pod. So to speak. Wait, that’s the wrong use of innuendo. President Gorlax entered her pod.

“This your place?” he asked.

“Soho,” she said.

“Does that mean yes or no?”

“It means small office, home office, silly.”

“I see. Sorry, I don’t get off of Gortician much. Not a lot of small talk to be found there, come to think of it.”

“Sounds boring.”

“Oh, it can be. I keep myself amused with…games.”

“You’re a gamer!” she asked, despite the lack of a question mark. “I’m a game designer!”

“Really?” Ah, there was the question mark.

“Praxalians don’t lie, goosehead.”

“Do they joke? Mess around?” Now the question marks were coming out of the woodwork, despite a total lack of wood. Note also, the proper application of innuendo in the last question.

“I’m not sure, actually,” she said.

“No,” answered the voice of MotherBrain. “Forbidden. Joking can be a form of lying. And no acting, either.”

“Wow,” President Gorlax said, “What a bitch.”

“And proud of it,” MotherBrain retorted, and then fell silent.

“No privacy either, eh? Tough gig.”

“No, it’s really pleasant here. Paradise, to us.”

“Don’t you get lonely?”

“What does that mean?”

“You know. Alone. Ly.”

“All Praxalians are always connected at all times. We’re a very close race. When we’re apart, we’re all together. You’re really talking to all Praxalians right now. But it’s my body, so I get to answer. Um, they do make suggestions, occasionally.”

“So, no privacy, then.”

It was an alien concept to Prail. She was never alone, and had never wanted to be.

“Why would I want that?” she asked. “They’re my friends and family.”

“What about sex?”

“Well, I’ve never had any. But it’s my understanding that they like to watch.”

“Freaky.”

“No. Just Praxalian. I hear sex on Gortician is pretty freaky.”

“Tell me about your games,” President Gorlax said, changing the subject.

She moved her finger right to left, and seven monitors illuminated themselves in attract mode, showing off her wares.

“Holy cow,” he said, using, for him, an irregular expression. “Those look awesome.”

“Oh, these are just the protos. The real games are played in 9D on Earth2.”

President Gorlax walked from screen to screen, enthralled.

“Prail, these are…fucking great. I had no idea you were so dynamic.”

“It’s just a pastime,” she said modestly, “A hobby. My big sisters–”

“Fuck your big sisters, Prail. You’re the shitbomb!”

“Is that good?”

“In this case, yes.”

“I’m glad. Thank you, sir. Would you like to tour the Perfection labs?”

“Not yet. I’m still gushing over your games. They’re so compelling and violent and, well, fun-looking.”

“Thank you, Gor. Are you quite finished?”

“And sexy. There, now I’m done. Let’s go.”

Prail blinked, and they were in the main corridor of the Perfection laboratories.

“That was quick,” he said.

“Why play around?” she asked.

“Obviously, you’re not a golfer,” he said, making a multi-layered joke. If he’d explained it, it wouldn’t have been as funny.

“A good walk, spoiled,” Prail said.

“Hey, get out of my head, you!”

“I’ve been running through your mind for weeks,” she said. “Besides, that was my line, not yours.”

“Yes, but you correctly discerned my meanings, and then improved on them. Kinda scary.”

“I didn’t think anything scared the Gortician.”

“Me either. Double scary.”
Chapter 20 – Tessa Rack
Judas Mason hooked up with Oracle at the Booker-T Spaceport by Martian Luther King Drive.

“Hongry?” she asked her.

“Somewhat famished, yes.”

“You talk funny,” Oracle said, “I ever tell you that?”

“By my recollection, this is the fifth time.”

“Whatcha want ta eat?”

Black Planet, Oracle’s homeworld, was famous for several things, and the food was one of them.

“Ribs,” Judas was quick to answer. “I don’t care whose.”

“Let’s go to Em-n-Them’s, they’re what’s crackalackin’ lately.”

“It’s your planet,” Mason conceded.

“I’ma call my friend Tessa. She’d like you.”

They rode in Oracle’s lowrider hovercraft and went to the bar to wait for Tessa. Judas had a Neo-Cosmo, and Oracle had a Sophisto, which was half orange drink, half grape, and half Everclear.

“You getting’ any dick?” Oracle asked.

“Beg pardon?”

“Somebody knockin’ it down? Beatin’ it up?”

“I’m afraid I can’t discern your meaning. Your native lingo, which I respect entirely, is riddled with colorful idioms that cloud your intent.”

“What? I said, ‘Who’s fuckin’ you?’”

“Oh,” Judas said. “No one.”

“Shit, girl. Thass yo’ problem. I got this cousin, Rollo…”

“No, thank you. I’ve heard about the men on your planet.”

“What’s that supposed to mean?”

“Nothing, really. It’s just that I’m sort of in the middle of destroying someone and I can’t be distracted.”

“Ooh, who?” Oracle asked, excited.

“Sherman Oakes.”

“The poet? Damn, girl.”

“You know him?”

“Sold him some black holes, once. Big dick. Nice guy. Why you wanna fuck him?”

“I don’t. I told you I want to ruin his life.”

“That’s what I mean. Why?”

Judas had to stop and think. “I’m not sure. Why does anyone?”

“Revenge, usually.”

“No, it’s not that. I’ve never even met him.”

“Sounds like some sublimated feelings of attraction juxtaposed into misdirected anger. O’ some shit.”

“Maybe,” Judas said. “Either way, he’s fucked.”

They giggled.

“So how do I get him?” she wondered.

“Easy. Pretend to be a hoe. I’ll hook you up.”

“You’d do that for me?”

“Girl, we tight. Hoes before bros.”

Oracle’s girlfriend walked up.

“’Sup, bitches?” she said.

“Tess!” Oracle said, jumping off her barstool. Judas followed her lead.

“Judas Mason, Tessa Rack.”

“How do you do?” Mason asked cordially.

“Like a motherfucker,” Tessa answered.

True to her name, Tess had huge tits, and the faintest wrinkles around her eyes. She was a warm, rich cappuccino to Oracle’s dark mahogany.

“Let’s eat, ladies,” Oracle said, and led them to a table.

###

Sherman Oakes awoke to an atom-splitting headache and a sadly depleted bank account. And no dope, remember? He needed to shit money, fast. Groggily, he dictated two poems for unknown corporate clients. Really, one poem, but they didn’t know that, so he got paid twice. 


Time Sands All Wounds
By Sherman Oakes

I don’t like watching the hourglass
Or The Days of our Lies
Because when we watch TV
We watch our lives pass us by
Except on the couch, together
Kissing and holding hands
Let’s go down to the beach
And roll around in the sand


Stars In My Pocket Like…
By Sherman Oakes

Time heals all wounds
And wounds all heels
Time that I spend with you
Is the only time that’s real
Hold me now, and forever
And tell me I’m still your man
My love for you is infinite
Like stars, and grains of sand


Then he broke into his emergency supply of sedatives and went back to his coma.
Chapter 21 – Perfections
 “So here is where we make Perfections,” Prail said with pride.

President Gorlax looked around. “It looks exactly like your room,” he said, puzzled.

“Oh, all the rooms on Praxis look like this. But this one is different. We make Perfections, here.”

As if that clarified things.

“But Perfections are flesh and bones. Blood and gristle. I know, I’ve eaten them before.”

“Sure. But we do our design work with computers. It’s a lot easier to make changes. Cheaper, too. And we pass the savings on to you.”

“How does that work?”

“Well, we build the body in 3D, and then populate the personality using forms, radio buttons, and pulldown menus. After that, we inject a false history using our patented randomization functions.”

“How does it become real?”

“Then a miracle happens,” she said.

“What?”

“Gor-gor?”

“Yes, Prail?”

“Tell me a poem…”

President Gorlax blinked. He squirmed. He panicked. He began to sweat. “Um, give me a moment.”

He thought. And thought. Nothing. He thought again. “Let me go into the hall and compose one,” he said.

“Sure.”

When the door closed, he slapped his left breastplate. “Sherman.”

“Mmhnh,” a voice said.

“Sherman!” he bellowed.

“Fuck! I’m awake!” Sherman said.

“Poem. Now,” President Gorlax commanded.

“Title?”

“Love After Death.”

Love After Death
By Sherman Oakes

Thoughts of you fill my head
Even time that I spend dead
‘Twas your love that brought me back
And took me off that one-way track
Eternally, I write for thee
For I love you, like you love me

“Now fucking fuck the fuck off,” Sherman growled.

Had anyone else talked to him like that, nuclear warheads would have already been launched. As it stood, President Gorlax just smiled and went back inside the Perfection labs.

“Done,” he said, feeling…happy. It was sort of new to President Gorlax, who had always assumed pleasure and happiness were the same thing. He recited it for Prail and found his eyes watery and his throat constricted.

“Oh, Gory. That was beautiful. Where do you get your ideas?”

“Erm, I have the heart of a small boy in a jar on my desk.”

“Really? Cool!”

“How about a kiss?” he asked, feeling entitled.

“A kiss? Gorlax, we’re not even married,” Prail said.

President Gorlax sighed. “Just as well,” he said, “I think I’m coming down with something.”

“Oh, dear,” she said, and then he found himself in an emergency room on Earth2, filling out insurance forms.

###

Prail’s stomach was a tornado, her heart a bass drum. The University of Southern California’s marching band played “Tusk” at max volume in her otherwise unoccupied head. Full of nervous energy, she cranked out a quick game.

Driven to Distraction was partly a game, partly a training sim. She hoped it might decrease incidents of vehicular homicide on Earth2. It was an automobile driving simulator with a twist. The player drove, but they didn’t control the perspective. 

The driver’s gaze constantly wandered. It fiddled with the radio, rummaged through the glovebox. It lit cigarettes and joints. Sometimes it drank alcohol. All the player had to do was drive and not crash. It was extremely challenging. Then Prail added fast food levels where the car coasted into a drive-through, and the player had to drive while eating. 

Finally, she added a cell phone. In a secret bit of sneak, Prail coded in messages and pictures from the driver’s significant other asking for poems, and the foolhardy player had to compose and type poetry while driving eighty miles an hour. These she siphoned off for her ever-growing collection. It was cool, and that was usually her goal. Having reached it, utterly exhausted, she napped for an entire hour.
Chapter 22 – Healthcare
President Gorlax’s situation devolved from bad to worse. He became so annoyed at the bureaucracy and doubletalk, he forgot he was on Earth2 and bit a nurse on the ass. Now he was being processed as a criminal. 

Gortician lacked hospitals, police, and criminals. There were no laws, and that sort of obviated the other aggravations. You lived, or you didn’t, and either option was fine and dandy. Wild n’ger usually took care of the weak, lame, enfeebled, or infirmed. The system worked. Unlike Earth2, which was a pulsating web of contradictions.

President Gorlax chewed out a cop’s lungs in aggravation. Clearly, this was going to take some time to sort out. He tried to compose a poem in blood, but he could only title them, it seemed. “Divine Decomposition”, he wrote. It was too bad they’d taken his Sirius Cybernetics Corporation AnyComm, he thought. Sherman would have had fun with that one. For about two minutes.

###

Judas, Oracle, and Tess drunk dialed Sherman Oakes. Really drunk dialed. The plates of food were mostly untouched, but they began to order by the pitcher.

“Therman,” Oracle said.

“Theremin salesman?” Sherman asked. “That’s odd. But I already have two.”

“Wadda fuck you need two Therman fo’?” she asked.

“You’re rather forward, for a cold-calling Theremin salesman,” he chided her. “Your pitch lacks a certain something. The first two were much more persuasive. Listen.”

He played an ooky melody for them.

“Scary, eh?”

“No,” Oracle said.

“Gimme dat,” Tess said, grabbing the handset.

“Sherman Oakes, do you want to stuff an Oreo?”

“Beg pardon?”

“Two thick black bitches with a slim white girl in the middle.”

“Oh, that kind of Oreo. Pity. I just woke up, thank you very much, and I’m sort of hungry.”

“Not now. We drunk. I’d puke on you.”

“Does that cost extra? Who is this?” he demanded.

“This Oracle and Tessa and…some white bitch.”

“Oh! Why didn’t you say so? How about tomorrow night?”

“There’s no night in space, foo’.”

“Um, after the evening news?”

“Word.”

“What?”

Click.

###

L’viv had a migraine, meaning one of her sons was in trouble. It was a problem, being from a race of psychics. But at least she knew. If you were psychic and didn’t know it, you just felt crazy all the time. She sent him, whichever it was, good feelings and hoped for the best.

###

Vnew Vreal was feeling neutral. That was his equivalent of being happy. With President Gorlax gone, so were his worries. Then he realized he hadn’t heard from him in two lunaticks, an entire day on Gortician. And then he remembered his upcoming date with AngVenn and fainted.

Worried was his actual state of happiness. But it was never a happy worrying.
Chapter 23 – Big Top
Prail was working on Big Top, a fun little action game for kids. It was a circus management sim, of a sort. You controlled the ringmaster of a three-ring circus. The show went on all around you, with continually changing acts in each of the three rings, as well as clowns and vendors who operated on the perimeters.

It was very entertaining just to watch. She put a lot of effort into the details, with plenty of acts and variations. All the player had to do was pass near the acts and keep them all going. The ringmaster avatar was surrounded by a green ring, his sphere of influence. As the levels progressed, the ring grew smaller, and the acts became more involved. It was rather like spinning plates on poles. Eventually, it became too much to manage.

Then the fun really began. Lions ran wild. Trapeze artists fell. Clown cars crashed and caught fire. In the worst case scenario, the tent itself erupted into flames. And it was deliberately unwinnable. Her favorite character was a demented clown with a sock puppet on his hand.

She made a mental note using a Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Post-It to add a circus level to Reaper Madness, and wondered how President Gorlax’s illness was doing.

###

President Gorlax was being beaten with sticks and shocked violently with electricity. Ordinarily not a big deal, but these Earth2 types knew nothing of subtlety. At least his oncoming cold seemed to have fled in a panic. He wondered how Prail was doing as he lapsed into blissful unconsciousness.
Chapter 24 – High-C
High-C was back from SkyHighLab, his not-very-secret secret drug synthesis laboratory. He flipped O.D. a tab, which he swallowed first and asked questions about later.
 
“What’s this?” he asked belatedly.

“Sloe Deth,” High told him.

“I think we may have a copyright issue,” his brother said slowly.

“What’s one more? Anyway, it’s s-l-o-e, not s-l-o-w, so it’s totally legal from a copyright standpoint. And you won’t be standing much longer, by the way. Unlike everything else we do, which is highly illegal.

“What’s in it?”

“Sloe gin, and all other drugs combined,” High-C said.

“It took six orbits to come up with that?” O.D. lamented.

“I had to get the dosages just right. Lotta math. Lotta testing. Lotta dead test subjects.”

“What’s it do?”

“It slows time to the degree that you can actually see Death.”

“Where is it?”

“Oh, all around us. But he should be here shortly.”

“What? Are you on it?”

“Nope. Already immune.” High-C rapidly developed immunity to drugs, so he was forced to continually invent new ones.

A figure in a black robe beamed in and sat down on the couch.

“Yo yo,” it said, grabbing the remote.

“Ah, there he is. My man,” High said. They made a bone-to-skin high five.

“You see him too?” O.D. asked.

“Yeah. It doesn’t seem to wear off. Messages?”

“Sherman Oakes spent the economy of a small moon. Parabola Blue called, wouldn’t talk to me. Oracle Jones wants to sell you a ton of Bubonic Chronic.”

“Good old Sherman Oakes. I bet he’s out again already. Start hyping up the new shit. I need REMs.”

“As soon as I beat this motherfucker at Star Wars Holographic Chess,” O.D. said with grim determination. “It’s a matter of life or death, I think.”

High-C didn’t have the heart to tell his brother that you could only see Death after you died. He considered it a minor, if annoying, side-effect.

###

 President Gorlax’s situation was even worse. He awoke in a daze, bloodied and beaten. Which was fine, he was cool with that. But he couldn’t seem to lose his prep school dialect and banter.

“Hello, um, negros,” he said to his cellies. “Would one of you like to perhaps play Cribbage?”

###

“Prail Exfactus Abraxis of Praxis!” MotherBrain roared from everywhere at once.

“Ma’am?” Prail asked in total innocence.

“Retrieve President Gorlax. NOW!”

President Gorlax was back in her room. Prail saw his state and snapped her fingers. His health was fully restored.

“Sorry, ma’am,” she said. She had erred, somewhat majorly. Prail disliked making mistakes. 

“I think I’d like to go home now,” he said quietly.
Chapter 25 – President Gorlax Retreats
President Gorlax nursed his bruised ego on the ride home. To his dismay, thoughts of Prail had become associated with the relative humiliations he had suffered. Note to self, he thought, fuck Earth. Earth2. Whatever. He resolved to only frequent planets free of silly rules and customs. Laws, he thought again, were for sucks.

He had lighthours to go before he could kill anything, so he stopped at Base Thirteen, a space station that sold cheap souvenirs from Mexico and New Orleans. It was completely pointless and terribly expensive. 

But even abjectly wasting money didn’t cheer him up. Once he got back on the road, so to speak, he jettisoned everything but a snow globe with a crucified Chewbacca in it that said, “Chewy loves you this much”. It was so weird he decided to give it to Vnew just to fuck with his head. He buzzed Sherman Oakes, and for once, their timelines were in sync. He had finally gotten some sleep, a practice President Gorlax could take or leave.

“Hello, President Gorlax,” Sherman said. “What’s up, my n’g?”

“How’d you know it was me?”

“Sirius Cybernetics Corporation CallerID.”

“Oh, yeah. Listen. Got any dope? I don’t know what a soul is, but I think I broke mine.”

“Fresh out. I, erm, binged a tiny bit. I need to re-up, myself. But call this address: Three-two-one-zed-zed-gotdope?.”

“Is the question mark part of it?”

“Yes.”

“Subtle.”

“Yes, well, if it’s intergalactic drugs you need, he’s the man. Intergalactic drug dealer High-C.”

“Logical.”

“Mention my name for a discount. Now if you’ll excuse me, I have Parabola’s Malthusian excretions all over me.”

“Three thousand,” President Gorlax said, which had never meant goodbye, ever, anywhere.

“Ring, ring,” said the Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Whatchamacallit.

“High-C and O.D. DrugWar. Cures for what ails ya, and ales to make the healthy unwell.”

“Yes, who am I speaking with?”

“Yo, dis O.D. DrugWar, number one wit da gun, big dick, cliqued up-”

“Put High-C on the phone. I don’t deal with underlings.”

“Bitch-”

Zzzzt. O.D. received an enormous dose of electro.

“There’s no bitch in President Gorlax, kid. Now put him the fuck on.”

“President Gorlax,” O.D. marveled.

“Do I Stuttgart, materfocker?” President Gorlax was trying to make German cursing the next Cockney rhyming slang, but it really hadn’t caught on.

“High-C,” a voice said. “This had better be better than good.”

“Hello, sir. Sherman Oakes told me you had excellent, erm, things for sale. I need something.”

“Dope. I have excellent dope for sale. Wait. Secure channel?”

“Most secure. The securiest. The Madame Curie of secure. Robert Smith s’cure.

“Who is this?”

“Oh. President Gorlax of Gortician. Sorry.”

“Wow. You’re bigger than that reptilian space pope. He’s addicted to Essence of Pedophile, confidentially. What do you need, chief?”

“The strongest thing you have.”

High-C hit ‘trace’, then ‘send’. “Check your pocket. On the house. Call anytime. War.” High-C was trying to get people to use “war” instead of “peace” as a sign-off.

“Um, war,” President Gorlax said, and hung up. In his pocket was a huge black pill, which he swallowed immediately.

###

High-C’s Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Whatever rang again. 

“Hotblack Desiato, my nigga in Camelopardis. What’s goin’ down, bromine?” High-C was also trying to bring back apothecary slang, but no one read Shakespeare anymore because Klingon was so difficult to master. 

“You’re goin’ on tour? There’s a surprise. When did you come off tour? Never? That’s what I thought. On your way to Milliways for milquetoast? Yes, I have the drug for you. One tab, ten thousand creds. Cool? Check your pocket. No, I already ganked the money from your account. War.”

It was a tour with Disaster Area that Hotblack was unlikely to forget. Or remember.

###

President Gorlax immediately began to feel better. The universe’s annoying problems vaporized. More importantly, he could think of Prail again without feeling nauseated.

Then Death materialized before him. Thinking quickly, which was hard to do when using Sloe Deth, he grabbed a Sirius Cybernetics Corporation Kill-o-gram DeathGiver brand pistol from the fireplace mantle.  Yes, President Gorlax had a fireplace on a spaceship. What of it? Space is cold.

“Aha!” he said. “When I kill you, I become Death!”

“No,” Death said. “Doesn’t work that way. Wrong genre. That’s fantasy. This is sci-fi. Sort of.”

“What’s the difference?”

“No fucking unicorns,” Death said.

“Oh. Spot of Cribbage, then?”

“Sounds boss.”
Chapter 26 – Date Night
Due to a complex interaction on the quantum plain, and in no way related to author laziness, Vnew Vreal’s date with AngVenn was on the same night, erm, at the same time. Stuff it. Occurred in relative temporal proximity to Sherman Oakes’s rendezvous with whom he came to consider the Cookie Sisters. They failed to cross paths, due to the vastness of space, and the fact that Sherman’s dates tended to occur in bed. 

An impatient AngVenn was forced to ring a reluctant Vnew Vreal.

“Ring, ring.”

Nothing.

“Ring, ring!”

“Um, hello?”

“Vnew Vreal, wherefore art thou?”

“On my way,” he lied. I’m just clearing the first moon.”

“Drive not by the moon,” she said, “The variable moon.”

“What?”

“Nothing. Just hurry up. Break a few laws of physics if you have to. I’m getting hungry. Hungry women are liked tired women, considerably less pleasant than well-fed and rested women.”

Vnew threw on a trench coat and battered fedora in the mistaken belief that all women were attracted to Humphrey Bogart and private detectives, and set off for AngVenn’s homeworld of Metatron, the local media hub.

###

Sherman Oakes was copping dope. He dialed High-C and O.D. DrugWar, and O.D. answered.

“Yo, dis O.D. DrugWar, more gully than the rug yo’ moms wore, I kicks it cricket like a Japanese bug store, I-“

“What’s good, O.D.?”

“Oh, Sherman. Hi. Sorry.”

“No, don’t be. I was enjoying the off-kilter meter and flow. It’s just that I’m in a hurry. Hot date.”

“Word?”

“What exactly does that mean?”

“No one’s really sure. It means ‘really’, I’d say. I used to say ‘verily’, but it didn’t take hold.”

“Oh, I see. Word. Ha! I like it. Anyhoos, I need, erm, dinner for four.”

“Dope. You mean dope. When you people mean dope, just say dope. We’re dope dealers, not Roxvarnk’s Chicken and Waffles. Wait. Secure channel?”

“Um, no. Hence the code.”

“Fuck. My brother’s gonna kill me. Again.”

“What are you two afraid of? There are no cops in space.”

“You can’t be too careful.”

“What if you’re so careful you fuck up?”

“Come on, man. Stop fucking with me. I’m too high for this shit.”

“So what do you recommend?”

“How about a ton of everything, and cut it with the trigger-happy, motherfuckin’ Geto Boys?”

“What?”

“Oh, nothing. Heard it in a song, once. Like I said, I’m extremely high.”

“So what do you recommend?”

“How many people?”

“Four.”

“Get your usual, times two. And I’m authorized to sell you four doses of High-C’s greatest hit, this is the new shit, for the price of three. Friend prices.”

“The catch?”

“I’m too high to be deceptive. It’s tenkay creds per hit. But it’s everlasting.”

“Hit me up. But don’t tell me the total. Just debit my account.”

“Check your pocket and the glovebox,” O.D. said.

“Word.”
Chapter 27 – Party Time
 “Vnew Vreal, calling for Madame AngVenn, if you please, sir,” Vnew said to AngVenn’s front door.

She punched ‘open’ to find him crouched over, talking into the entry knob.

“Vnew, what are you doing?”

“I was about to formally ask your father for official permission to court you.”

“Vnew, I don’t have a father.”

“Really? I didn’t know that.”

“You’d know more about me if you’d talk to me more. And not about President Gorlax or press releases. So far you’ve said more to the door than me.”

“To be fair, it is a Sirius Cybernetics Corporation door with Genuine People Personality, right?”

“No,” she said. “Just a door.”

“It is a jar,” he said.

“What?” she asked, then understood. “A joke! Vnew, you are so funny! Let’s go.” 

She pushed out the door and grabbed his hand. Vnew felt strangely pleased by her touch, but inwardly worried about the fate of President Gorlax, who didn’t always behave himself when visiting other planets.

###

Judas, Oracle, and Tess climbed in through Sherman Oakes’s airlock. 

“How did you get in here?” he asked, unconcerned, but curious all the same.

“Username: username, password: password,” Oracle said.

“Plus a coat hanger,” Tessa added.

“And who is this white-hot spate of supernovae?”

“Sherman Oakes, meet the creme in your Oreo, Ms. Judas Mason,” Oracle said.

“Ixnay onxnay myxnay eelxray amexnay, itchxbay,” Judas ground out.

“Psh. Shermie cool as fuck. And he won’t remember shit no how,” Oracle said. “Right, Sherm?”

But he was composing.

“Kiss of Judas, by Sherman Oakes,” he said.

“Ooh, gull,” Tess said. “You so lucky. He like you.”

“Alabaster slab of Marble
A stone fox within
I nibble around your edges
Unsure where to begin
My shaking hands hold a chisel
The hammer? The sound of my heart
Pressing my lips to your surface
Seems like a good place to start”

“Sherman! Do me!” Tess cried, jealous.

“After,” he said, no stranger to tricks. “That one was a gift.”

A thin chip of ice broke off of the bottom of Judas’s heart and fell into one of her legs, where it melted away.

“Let us get high, ladies of the morning, mid-day, and evening.” 

He flipped them each a black obelisk. Tessa ate hers immediately.

“I don’t like to brag. Well, a little. You just ate ten thou in creds.”

“Ooh-wee, Shermie,” Tessa said. “Ten thousand creds makes me as slippery as a Hut on Dagobah.”

“Mmm-hmm,” Oracle agreed. “Like that Star Hustle flick, ‘Mother Nature, a Whore in a Vacuum’.”

“Lady Mason, will you partake with us in the spirit of congress?”

“I…I’ve never done a drug before.”

“This one’s mostly harmless.”

“If you say so, Mr. Oakes.” 

She swallowed hers, and Sherman followed.

“Please, call me by my first name, or some variation thereof,” he said.

“What’s it called?”

“Sherman. But that’s an odd way of asking.”

“No, the pill.”

“Sloe Deth,” he said.

“Gull, we are gonna get fucked up!” Oracle said to Tessa.

###

President Gorlax landed on Gortician, and the unfortunate residents squeezed into neighboring continents to avoid his presumed wrath. But he was strangely sedate. Introspective. Borderline pleasant. Between Prail and Death lies happiness, he mused. He had never mused before. Idly, only idly, he wondered where Vnew was, and why he wasn’t fawning. He reminded himself to remind himself to tell his old school buddy that he was a good friend and representative.

What the fuck is wrong with me, he wondered.

Rather than sending out for more servants, he fixed his own dinner, drew his own bloodbath, and…vacuumed.
Chapter 28 – Bauhaus
With trembling fingers and a hesitant heart, Prail Abraxis began what she hoped would be her crowning achievement in game design, her writer simulation. Getting started was easy once she cleared the difficult hurdle of deciding to get started. There were a number of draggable and droppable building blocks that formed the basic elements of the game, which she dragged and dropped.

The first unique detail she pondered was the question of handwriting. She had typewriter and computer objects, but she wanted lots of variation for those who played more than once. This was unlikely for most of the multiverse, since the entire game ran in real-time, making a second attempt impossible for all but Praxalians and other immortals or long-lifers.

She solved her dilemma by acquiring a large sampling of actual handwriting, male and female, from a wide variety of sources. From there, she devised a routine to autotrace each alphabet style, and added lots of small variations, stylistic differences, habits, and quirks. She slanted the messier styles toward male avatars, but allowed for non-stereotypical “feminine” handwriting for some males, as well as the inverse.

From there, it was easy enough to link the act of writing or typing the text to the libraries of Earth and Earth2. Having such a broad range of literature to draw upon allowed Prail to place the player in any time period, beginning with Sanskrit and the Rosetta Stone languages all the way to alien hieroglyphics as yet unknown by Earthtwoians. It was actually easier than she had imagined it would be, which was a trifle disappointing. Prail resolved to make things more complicated.

###

Sherman Oakes and AngVenn were seated at Bauhaus, where she took the lead in all things, without consciously trying to.

“Pervasian wine,” she told the maître’d. “Mauve.” 

It technically wasn’t his job, but she had such a commanding presence he retrieved a bottle and two glasses anyway.

“I love Bauhaus,” she cooed. “Don’t you?”

“Um, yes?” Vnew had never been before.

“I’ve always wondered why it’s decorated with chrome, neon and pseudowood Shaker furniture, though. Kinda incongruous.”

“I suppose they had to call it something,” he said helpfully.

“I ate at a place called Chik-Chik-Chik, once. Except it wasn’t called Chik-Chik-Chik, but three exclamation points. No one called it three exclamation points, because they didn’t want to have to explain. So they called it Chik-Chik-Chik. It actually led to a more wordy explanation.”

“The best laid plans of mice and things,” Vnew said.

“Men,” AngVenn said.

“Did I say something wrong?” he asked, concerned.

“Ooh, green cheese bread,” she said at the approach of the waiter. “Did you know the water passes through a wormhole to get here? Very exotic.”

“Really? Where does it come from?”

“Some planet. Passaicnewjersey?”

“Never heard of it,” Vnew said.

“So, what’s President Gorlax like in person?” she asked.

“Murderous. I try and stay out of his reach. He’s returning from Praxis, now. And Earth2.”

“Wow, Praxis! He must be rich.”

“Indescribably so. Like, so rich, he’s poor. That rich.”

“That’s extremely rich. He must be sad and lonely.”

“Most Gortician don’t have feelings.”

“Genetically?”

“No, they’re just very intense. They use them all up at an early age. We’ve tried transplants, but they don’t seem to take.”

“How about you?”

“Oh, I haven’t used any yet. Except anxiety, and I seem to have a vast reserve of that.”

“Poor baby. Love? Joy?”

“Never. Is relief an emotion?”

“Kind of.”

“Sometimes I feel relief.”

“I can change that,” she said.

Vnew noted that her statement could be interpreted in two ways.

###

“I don’t feel nuthin’,” Oracle said. “I want your money back, Sherman.”

“Try swallowing it, Ora. It’s still in your hand,” Sherman responded. 

They washed the obelisks down with New English Eight Thousand as he constructed a Danko lightsaber and Tessa chopped Nazka lines on the tabletop. No sooner had the tablets dissolved when Death materialized before them, straw and lighter in hand. 

“Sherman,” Oracle said. “If he gonna watch, it’s gonna cost extra.”

###

Despite the language barrier – AngVenn’s words being concrete and Vnew’s being clouds – they had a pleasant meal. Ang ordered Electaurus lightly basted with puna butter, and Vnew had lobsters stuffed with tacos, a Snuhwich. They sipped Bonjovian cider with the food, which both agreed had an excess of glitter.

“So,” Vnew said, “What’s it like at the bureau? Lots of, uh, press releases, then?”

“Sure,” Angy said. “But most of them are a blur. Yours are the only ones I pay attention to. Sometimes I wait for days until one comes through. How very exciting life on Gortician must be.”

“I suppose the threat of immanent death could be considered exciting. Eventually it becomes tedious.”

“The curse of the long-lifers,” she said. “Could be worse. You could be immortal. They eventually spend all of their time contemplating suicide, I bet.”

“Actually, for a long-term planner such as myself, I’d prefer it. Long life is sort of indeterminate. It can run from short-term to quasi-immortality. Too iffy for quality life management.”

“Vnew,” AngVenn said, with a question waiting in the wings.

“Yes, Angy?”

“Do you like me?”

“Of course I do. Silly question.”

She reached across the table for his hand. “No,” she said. “Do you like me? Could we share the future?”

To her slight discomfort, Vnew had to think about it.

“Yes,” he said. “Yes, we could.”

Her heart soared like a Tyrakkian Warbird. Her eyes glowed like the fabled Loc-Nar.

“Oh, Vnew!” she said. “Of course I’ll marry you!”

“Problem,” he said. “Aren’t you of a somewhat short lifespan?” 

“Oh, that,” she replied. “We’ll just save up for longevity treatments on Praxis. Until I catch up to you. Or, if we hit the SpaceBall, we can buy Perfections. Wouldn’t that be sinistar?”

“I’d like that,” he said mildly.

“Oh, Vnew!” 

AngVenn leaned across the table to embrace him. The food at Bauhaus was all virtual, so this was less messy than it could have been. “I can’t wait to pick out our dresses and slave rings.”

“If it’s all the same to you, Angy, I’d prefer to wear a suit.”

But she was too happy to hear.
Chapter 29 – Black Vein Prophecy 
L’viv was in a black mood. Absence of light black, which is far blacker than even black number one. So black, it’s no longer a color. There is no accompanying Pantone number for this particular shade of black. R:000 G:000 B:000 doesn’t even begin to cover it. Even CMYK fails to properly encapsulate L’viv’s ordinarily polymorphic mood. If absolute zero were a color, and were attending a funeral, it still wouldn’t come close. Perhaps we should just move on.

She was commingling her own despair with President Gorlax’s very near to death experience, which she wildly misinterpreted, it being mistranslated due to passing near a Van Halen radiation belt. President Gorlax was pretty somber, though, and Sherman’s neutrality didn’t exactly raise the bar on positivity.

It was a mess. If only she could get away.

###

Sherman’s orgy was a flop. Sherman’s organ was floppy. “Well, I guess we’ll call it a night,” he said. “Poem?”

“Sherman,” Oracle said, “Thirty thousand creds and a crater full of Krell plus the Dankosaurus, and I can scarcely bear to charge you. But okay, pay us.”

“Cookies Unmilked
By Sherman Oakes

Double Oreo
Unstuffed
My tough luck
The pillows?
Still fluffed
Unstained sheets
Unlicked feet
Oh the agony
Antigone
Matter and antimony
But the crème in my coffee
This hot buttered toffee
I’ve mentioned the least
I’m facin’
This Mason
This dear Judas priest
Ess”

“Shermie, it’s a good thing you couldn’t engage your warp drive. That poem stinks,” Oracle said. “We outta here like simple hydrogen propulsion systems.”

###

L’viv was having a terrible premonition. If her mood was black before, well, sufficed to say even though it couldn’t appear to get blacker, it inexplicably did. Let’s just leave it at that.
Chapter 30 – Surprise!
Once they had climbed into Tessa’s Sirius Cybernetics Corporation 5G-Ride, Tessa said, “Well, that was a big letdown.”

“Come on, gull. We got paid, right?” Even a bad Sherman Oakes poem is worth skanless creds. We’ll sell it to Spiral Arm Review and split it,” Oracle said.

“Three ways?” Tess asked

“Two ways,” Oracle said. “She ain’t no hoe,” indicating Judas. 

“I just feel dead inside,” Tess said.

“Me, too,” Oracle agreed.

“I feel the same as I always do,” Judas said.

“Well,” Oracle said. “Did you resolve your feelings of ambiguity toward mad poet Sherman Oakes? Isn’t he dream-worthy?”

“Yes and no,” Mason said.

“Don’t go all quantum on me. Deep dish it up.”

“Resolved? Yes. Do I like him? Less than ever.”

“And have you figured out how to deal with your feelings, now unambiguous?”

“Yes,” Judas said. “I left a bomb in his bathroom.”

“Like, you purposely didn’t flush bomb?” Tess asked.

“Like, a hull-breeching cluster bomb bomb. Of course I flushed. I’m not a social deviant.”

###

President Gorlax was about to break the cool rule. He was going to ring up Prail Abraxis. First. Without waiting any customary arbitrary waiting period. Why, he wondered. Could it be-? No, he answered himself. It’s just the polite thing to do. You, polite, he asked himself. Sure, why not? He answered his question with a question. Then he wondered if he shouldn’t go to Planet Xenu for a complete psychiatric evaluation.

“Ring, ring, ring.”

“Hey, hey, hey,” Prail answered.

“Prail the delightful,” President Gorlax said.

“President Gorlax the president,” Prail said.

“Look, I just recently touched down, but I thought I’d call.”

“Oh, that’s sweet, Wizard of Gore. Sweeter than Xanadu melons.”

“So, um, yeah. How are the games going?”

“Oh, quadfab! Just froopy, really. I had a real breakthrough. I mostly knocked out my writer sim project.”

“Oh, superlative. Hyperbolically superlative.”

“I know, right? I have to work up the non-writer jobs they do, draft a few thousand rejection letters. Housekeeping stuff. The heavy lifting is done. It’s all tedium and testing, now.” 

“Could I help alpha test it?” President Gorlax asked hopefully.

“Of course! That’d be banging. You can theta test it, even.”

“What does that mean?”

“Play it remotely from Gortician via mindlink.”

“Really? What do I need?”

“Nothing. Just thought waves. We do the rest from Praxis.”

“Sounds like a plan,” President Gorlax said, a trifle disappointed.

“Listen, I want some Perfections. Super-type. These are so breakable. I need Gwar-caliber Perfections.”

“That will take some doing. Currently, they’re all quite delicate. That was a plus, previously.”

“Yes, and I had a lot of fun slaughtering them. But I’ve grown more conservative. You know what they say: a Praxalian is a Gortician who’s been mugged.”

“Do they? Were you mugged?”

“Well, I just said it. Not mugged. Perhaps you can breed a SuperPerfection to mug me.”

“They’re not bred as such. But I’ll look into it. I’m looking for new projects. I’m all out of game ideas.”

“How about working on a planet management sim?”

“It’s been done, although not particularly well. I’ll consider it.”

“How about a serial killer simulator?”

Prail ran through the permutations. “Now that could work. It’d essentially be the writer sim core, with killing, evasion, and secrecy.”

“So you could be a writer and a serial killer?” President Gorlax asked, somewhat rhetorically.

“Sure. Or a farmer and a serial killer. A yogurt salesman, etcetera. Much like writing, serial killing is mostly a lot of time killing.”

“It sounds like fun.”

“Serial killing?”

“No, your game. I’ve done plenty of serial killing. It gets old.”

“You could be a creative consultant, then, since you write and kill, too.”

“Do I? Oh, yes. Write. Right. So, I’ll see you again, write? I mean, right?”

“Of course.”

“How do I play the writer sim?”

“Just think about it. I’ll monitor for theta waves with your signature.”

Click.
Chapter 31 – Disaster Area
Sherman Oakes was whizzing home. Literally. He had been holding it in since his guests left, so he tapped the Sirius Cybernetics Corporation ZipDrive which took off for what he considered his home quadrant, and finally relieved himself. A long way to go for a pun, he mused.

There was a knock at the door, the sound of bones on aluminum. 

“Pissing,” he called out.

Another knock.

“Urination in progress,” Sherman said.

A third knock.

“Klaatu barada mictu,” was his exasperated reply. His Sirius Cybernetics Corporation pants buttoned themselves, and he exited the AutoLav.

“Yes, what is it, Death?”

“Problems.”

“Of what sort?”

“Of a decidedly deadly sort.”

“You’re Death. I’m dead. What’s the worst that can happen?”

“We can have our various parts scattered throughout Carl Sagan’s Cosmos.”

“Oh, dear. Short version, what’s wrong?”

“Toilet. Bomb.”

Boom.

###

L’viv screamed.

###

President Gorlax had just settled in to start Prail’s writing sim when his thought cloud rained on his brain parade. Then he rubbed his eyes and logged in. Mental flatulence, he thought.

###

“Bitch, what?” Oracle said.

Judas Mason felt a tingle in her bones. It was her Sirius Cybernetics Corporation DetonAlert, alerting her that her bomb had just gone off.

“Don’t act surprised,” Judas said, “That was the plan all along.”

“Yeah, but…” Tessa said. “He’s so nice.”

“Wouldn’t hurt a fly. And rich,” Oracle said.

“If you killed our cash cow…” Tessa began.

“…we got problems,” Oracle said. “I figured you’d meet him, see how cool he is, and abandon your silly-ass ‘kill him’ plan.”

“Why would I do that?” Mason asked.

“Dunno,” Oracle answered. “It’s the human thing to do.”

“Which of us are human?”

“Oh, yeah. None of us.”

“Do that thing have the co-ords of the explosion?” Tessa asked Judas.

“Say it properly. Does-”

“Bitch, I’ma kill you!” Tessa screamed.

“Aleph quatloo sega mork mork,” Judas said, frightened.

“Roll out, sista,” Oracle told Tessa. “And rock that Aretha tape.”

Aretha Mongo was a popular DiRossian throat singer.

###

Sherman’s latrine hatch survived the blast, but his Airstream hull did not.

“We’re going down, slowly,” Death said.

“There is no down in space,” Sherman corrected him.

“Sounds better than ‘We’re going up’. Makes me sound like a bloody elevator operator. Bloody fucking Charon the doorman,” Death said.

“Look, now’s not the time, okay?”

“If now’s not the time, I’d like to know when is.” 

“Okay, but I’m busy, so I’m not listening. Let’s see… closest planet…Faggotron. Great. They can reupholster the AutoBus while we burn to death. Hang on,” Sherman said, “We’re going down.”

“See?” Death said.

###

Vnew Vreal was bringing AngVenn home when she got a call from her boss on MetaTron.

“Okay, yes sir. I’m on it,” she told him.

“Sherman Oakes just crashed landed on Faggotron, and I’m the closest newsie in the area. Mind swinging by?”

“No, of course,” Vnew said. He was strangely calm for being so unexpectedly betrothed. “But I’d better call my boss, too.” He hit six on his speed dial.

“Hello? President Gorlax?” he said.

“Vnew Vreal! I thought you’d finally suicided successfully. ‘Good for him’, I said.”

“No, sir. I’m actually engaged.”

“Engaged in committing suicide right now? How exciting!”

“I’m headed to Faggotron.”

“Go ‘head on, Vreal. I always knew that about you, you know.”

“It’s an emergency, sir.”

“A love emergency?”

“No, sir. It’s Sherman Oakes. He may be dead.”

“Sloe Deth dead?” President Gorlax asked.

“No, sir. Whatever that is. Fast, fiery death dead.”

“Oh. In that case, I might have to come have a looksee.”

###

Prail was monitoring President Gorlax’s mind link, and asked MotherBrain’s permission to pop over, in case anyone needed resurrecting.
Chapter 32 – Happy Ending?
The mad poet Sherman Oakes sat in the back of his smoldering AutoBus. His pen hand, if he would ever use a pen again, was shattered. So was the rest of him. Aqueous fluid dripped onto his lips like the result of Vaayanese eyeball torture.

“Oh, my, my, my,” said a first-responder, a big burly fireman. “Someone needs a hairstylist, stat!” He cradled the broken form of Sherman Oakes and brought him away from the AutoBus. Death had suddenly taken a holiday.

One by one, Sherman Oakes’s friends slowly arrived and crowded around him.

“What do we do?” someone asked.

“Pray,” said another.

“To whom?” asked a third.

“Nyarlathotep,” someone said.

“Vader,” said another.

“Aretha,” said Oracle.

“Jebus,” said Vnew Vreal. “At least I think that’s his name.”

“He goes by Zarquon, now,” Tessa corrected him.

Prail appeared, looking exactly not unlike a bald angel. And Sherman was healed.

“Hey, Sherm,” a voice said. He opened his eyes. 

“It’s me, your old buddy President Gorlax.”

“I thought…you were…black,” Sherman said.

“I thought you were,” President Gorlax said. “Actually, you are rather sooty. But I feel silly. We both must have sounded pretty foolish, with the adopted lingo and all.”

“Don’t sweat petty things,” Sherman said. “Pet sweaty things. Who saved me?”

“Me, sir. Prail Abraxis of Praxis.”

“Unwieldy…moniker,” he said. “Lovely…girl.

Untitled
By Sherman Oakes

Angelic stellate upstart
Watchful Nephilim
Savior Goddess
She came from above
And rained down
Not death
But love”

And then he passed out.

“Ooh-wee, gull,” Oracle said. “Nobody has ever got an untitled Sherman Oakes poem before. You rich!”

“Who is Sherman Oakes?” Prail asked.

“Who is Sherman Oakes? Only the most famous scribe this side of infinity.”

“The meter is so familiar,” Prail said.

“I told you. He’s famous.”

Prail turned to President Gorlax, who was now engrossed in conversation with Judas Mason.

“Gorlax, you didn’t write those poems for me, did you? It was Sherman.”

“Guilty,” he said. “It was a little Cyrano de Braniac ploy. Sorry, there.”

Angry, she turned back to Sherman and touched his brow.

“You’re real,” he said. “I thought I’d dreamed you.”

L’viv walked up, huffing from the exertion. “I hope you boys haven’t been up to shenanigans,” she said.

“Who’s this guy?” Sherman asked.

“I’m your mother,” she said. “And his mother,” pointing at President Gorlax. “I was exiled here on Faggotron for substandard mothering.”

“Was it the beard and moustache?” President Gorlax said.

“We’re all men on Faggotron. Look it up. I can see I have been a bad mother, with you boys crashing spaceships and flaunting your ignorance in public. And no doubt speaking jive, too. But I’ve changed.”

“We love you, mom,” Sherman said.

“Yeah,” President Gorlax agreed. “Despite your unfortunate facial hair.”

“We can reverse all of that on Praxis,” Prail said.

“Not so fast, sweetie. I’ve gotten used to being a man. Maybe I can relate to my boys better, now. I’ll stay this way, at least for a while. We can spit, adjust our crotches, play fag football.”

“Flag football,” President Gorlax said.

“You’re new here, right?” L’viv said.

“Oh, Vnew! Isn’t this romantic?” AngVenn said.

“Quite,” Vnew said. “Insofar as I understand the rudiments of romance and the female intellect.”

“Prail Abraxis of Praxis, would you marry me?” Sherman said.

“I’ll have to consult-oh, dash it all. Yes, I will,” she said.

“I’m also a galactically-licensed SubGenius minister,” the fireman said.

“Um, us, too,” Vnew said. “I guess.”

“Oh, Vnew!” AngVenn said, kissing him excitedly.

“How about you, Tessa?” Oracle axed. “You down?”

“I suppose. We’re not getting any younger.”

“I wouldn’t be so sure of that,” a voice said from behind them.

“Death!” everyone cried happily.

“How about you two?” the fireman asked President Gorlax. “Group rate…”

“No, we’re good,” President Gorlax said. “Marriage is for plebes.”

Judas elbowed him in the ribs.

“I mean, sure. Yes, please. Sorry, dearest,” President Gorlax said, thoroughly whipped.

“By the powers vested in me, I now pronounce you man, and, um,” the fireman said.

“Wife!” everyone shouted.

“Right, wife. In pairs, not collectively. You may kiss the, um, non-male person.”

And they did.

“Better call High-C and O.D. DrugWar,” Oracle said. “We fittin’ to partay!”

“Can Parabola Blue come on our honeymoon?” Sherman Oakes asked Prail.

“I don’t know who that is, or what a honeymoon is, but sure. I don’t see why not,” Prail said.

A cheer went up from the assembled crowd. President Gorlax and Judas Mason were walking to a Sirius Cybernetics Corporation PuddleJumper cab they’d hailed.

“Hey, you two,” L’viv said. “What gives?”

“We’re going to sit this one out, ma,” President Gorlax said. “I’ll be in touch.”

In the cab, he touched his breastplate and said, “Hello? Vogon Constructor Fleet? I’d like to order a hyperspace bypass…”

The End?


