  	 	 		


A nerdcore hip-hop novella

Table of Contents
Chapter 1 - The Odd Couple
Chapter 2 - Karyn Crisis In The Kremlin 
Chapter 3 - Fear & Loathing In Cleveland 
Chapter 4 - All My Texts Originate in Texas 
Chapter 5 - Florida Sucks
Chapter 6 - Z.E.D.'s Not Dead 
Chapter 7 - Federal Case, Jr.
Chapter 8 - Louisiana Sucks, But Not As Much As Florida 
Chapter 9 - Bad Mother Truckers
Chapter 10 - Hack Attack 
Chapter 11 - Balloonacy 
Chapter 12 - Operation Europe 
Chapter 13 - Locked Down 
Chapter 14 - Peach Is the Word 
Chapter 15 - Victorious Secret

Zombie Killa
Jason Z. Christie
Copyright 2011 by Jason Z. Christie
Dedicated to the Nerdcore Hip-Hop scene, and filmmakers Dan Lamoureux and Lloyd Kaufman.

ISBN-10: 1481052969
ISBN-13: 978-1481052962

     Author's Note: All of the rappers who appear in this novella are real people who make real music. Google them. They're fun.




Chapter 1 - The Odd Couple
     Myf's alarm clock clicked on and he was awakened to an ear- shattering blast of Brutal Truth, one of his favorite grindcore bands. He was your typical black college student: wild, impetuous, fun-loving. He was actually from Sri Lanka, but he looked black, so it was easier to just self-identify as black. Things like that seemed to matter more in the U.S. Very few people were close enough for him to reveal his actual heritage.
     He reached over, eyes closed, and grabbed his preloaded three-foot bong. His hand groped for a lighter from the nightstand, which held several upon its surface. He managed to find one, knocking others to the carpet, and took a hit of Willy Wonka, the current favorite weed in Cleveland. The light from the burning butane pierced his eyelids like a supernova. Now somewhat awake, he staggered to the dresser. In his stupor, he applied brown shoe polish to his armpits instead of deodorant. It was April twentieth, two thousand and thirteen.
     He walked into the extremely dark bedroom of his roommate, High-C. High was your typical straight-laced white guy: conservative, uptight, judgmental, and a secret crack-smoker. Myf brought the reloaded bong with him. He flicked on the light switch, jarring High awake and dissipating his dreams of eating the pussy of some young girl or another.
"Duuuude!" Myf yelled. "It's four-twenty!"
     He pushed the business end of the bong into High's mouth and flicked his Bic. Reflexively, he cleared the entire bowl in a single hit. His lungpower was legendary. High-C opened one eye and looked at the red LCD display of his cheap Wal-Mart clock. It read "3:22 AM".
"Fucker," he said.
     "Yeah, I'm early. But I knew you'd want to sleep in. If I'd have awakened you at four-twenty, you'd have missed it. I'll be back," Myf said. "I'm working on a surprise."

     High turned over to sleep, but the stash of rocks under his bed was calling to him. His drug consumption was also legendary. In fact, one of the few things he wasn't a legend at was rapping, which was unfortunate, because he, Myf, and all of their friends were aspiring nerdcore rappers. Still, the others tolerated his efforts, and humored him. They were sort of irked by him at the same time, because although he was a great lyricist, he put almost no effort at all into recording. Myf, by contrast, could crank out a pro-sounding track in a single take.
     He pulled out his basepipe and wrapped himself in a large American flag he'd liberated from a McDonald's. As his black metal friend Goat had once remarked, "You can't get more American than that." He blazed stones until four, when he put the mapp gas torch down and crafted a blendo starship. It was his greatest joint creation yet, a huge cone spliff with three joints sticking out of the end of it. It stood on his nightstand like a rocket or one of the Apollo lunar landing modules, assuming they were constructed out of marijuana and paper.
     At four-fifteen, he sauntered out of his room buck naked, as was his habit. Myf was one of the few people who tolerated his antics and took him in stride.
     "Put on a robe, cocksucker," Myf said. "Show some respect, man."
     "I never understood why you stoners celebrated Hitler's birthday in the first place."
     High went to his room and returned in a fuzzy pink bathrobe.
     "What?" he said to Myf, who hadn't said anything in the first place. "Much like the practice that originated among New York pimps of calling each other 'baby' and the like, a man secure in his sexuality can, say, wear a fuzzy pink bathrobe."
     "I didn't say anything in the first place," Myf said. "But I'll thank you not to lecture me on black American culture, sir."

     "Oh, shit. I'm as black as you are. Sri Lankan motherfucker."
     "I disagree, white boy. Years of identifying with black people and being treated like one has effectively made me black. Something you'll never be."
"I'm as black as Tracy Marrow," High countered. "Nope," Myf said.
"Will Smith?"
     "Mmm, maybe. Then again, he cheated on his wife. You don't even have a girlfriend."
     "That's because I labor under the misconception imposed by Julie Brown in the 1989 non-classic classic Earth Girls Are Easy."
     "It stands to reason, sir, that after twenty or more years of the same folly, you'd readjust your tactics."
     High-C was determined to disprove one man's working definition of insanity: doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. He threw great fistfuls of ham and bacon into a cast iron skillet.
     "No time for cop eating, bruh. Spark that ell. It's four twentaaay!" Myf said.
     High pulled out his Starship Titanic or whatever he called his latest art piece.
     "We have two minutes. What's your new project?" He nodded toward a large object covered with a sheet that sat along one wall of the living room.
     "Your timing sucks. Light that motherfucker. Then we'll smoke a joint and talk about it."
"Whitney Houston, we're go for liftoff in ten...nine..."
     "One," Myf said, snatching it from his hand. "It'll take a whole minute to get this monstrosity lit."
     He put fire to the three legs and began puffing. To his surprise, all three lit and started burning. He passed it to High-C.
"What's in this motherfucker?" Myf asked.
"The legs are Skunk #1, Willie Wonka, and Chocolate Thai.
The body itself is pure B.C. Bud from Vancouver, Canada."

"Nursehella weed, eh?"
"Better yet, smuggled here in her own sweet pussy." "Ultraklystron?" Myf asked, and they both giggled.
     At four-twenty, Myf's alarmclock went off again, and they let the metal blast away as they smoked. By the time they had burned the legs down, Myf begged off. High continued to hit Nursie's pussyweed, blowing smoke rings. He fancied himself a dragon.
Myf pulled the sheet off with a flourish.
     "Endtroducing the Mythril Nazgulator Nine Thousand," he said.
     It was a two-seated wooden bench with a high back that extended up into a box with two holes in the bottom. There were speaker wires running into the left and right sides of the top part.
     "What is it?" High asked. "An electric chair built for two? A very impractical park bench? The city of Cleveland would love it."
     "It's the ultimate smoking accessory. You get in the speakers, man! There's lights and-"
     There was a loud knock at the door. The downstairs neighbor, an actual black American, had called the police over the music. Myf peered through the peephole as High continued to puff away at the cone.
"Shit, it's a cop!"
     Cleveland cops were notorious assholes, especially when it came to weed. High-C just kept toking.
     "You didn't use the agreed upon code phrase for a cop at the door," he said.
"Fuck!" Myf said. "Put it out. Cereal!" "Nope," High said defiantly.
"Okay, okay," Myf said. "Damn! Five-oh, Ice!" "That's better."
     High spat into his hand and extinguished the remainder of the spliff, putting it behind his ear.




Chapter 2 - Karyn Crisis In The Kremlin
     YTCracker had hacked NASA again. This time, he grabbed a PDF of a pre-release draft edition of the Egyptian Book of the Dead. He scanned it, not really taking it all in.
"Hot shit," he said.
     He was such a pimp-ass hacker, his PC was a La-Z-Boy recliner. All he had to do was lay back and close his eyes and he was jacked in. That put him at least four generations ahead of the rest of the nerdcore hip-hop clique.
     Some of the hieroglyphics were unfamiliar to him, and he definitely didn't trust NASA's translation, so he forwarded the document to Magitek, some of his Orlando homeboys, for an in- depth analysis. Then he went back to pimpin' Nightelves in World of Warcraft. High-C had him gold-farming for some nutty simulator idea.
###
     Zealous1 was busting serious caps on the west coast. A Piru Blood as well as a nerdcore MC, he stood astride two worlds, suffocating them. He was a big dude. Like, he ate Boo-Yah Tribe big.
     "I sense an upcoming disturbance in the force," he told his WOW familiar, Salem the Cat from Sabrina the Teenage Witch. "Probably something to do with that buster-ass fake crab High- C."
     High and Zealous had been on the outs ever since some Babylon Five chatroom flamewar had gotten out of hand. Just for shits and giggles he executed a script that turned everyone in the vicinity into High-C avatars. Then he entered berserker mode and scattered body parts for miles. He dropkicked High-C's head through the gates of Isendor, which technically shouldn't have been present in Azeroth. He was a boss hacker himself.
###
     MC Router ran the Dallas nerdcore branch with an iron fist. She had discarded the velvet glove entirely, having first wiped

her fucking ass with it. She took no shit from anyone. Well, she took High-C's head once, and he was a shithead, so that was debatable. Generally speaking, however, she took no shit off of anyone. She was still a little upset about Vegas.
     She was wearing her German beerhall disguise, bugging Doc Popular for a new instrumental, and playtesting games for Praxis Software. Router was the reigning queen of nerdcore. Or, at least she was until Nursehella popped up, totally sucking High-C in with her Rush and Evil Dead references. He was such a pushover.
Eventually, they settled their differences, dividing the
U.S. evenly down the middle. Which was hardly fair, as Nursie was Canadian. Still, they weren't about to share anything with that brat Veeps.
###
     Quick-thinking Myf switched on the ceiling fan to dissipate the clouds in the room and sprayed some Pam cooking spray, since they didn't seem to own any air freshener. Then he wondered why in the fuck they had Pam cooking spray. Apparently High had bought it on eBay. He spent much of his disposable income on kitsch.
     High refused to remove the cone roach from behind his ear, so Myf finally slapped it away and stomped on it. Ever the businessman, High-C said, "You owe me thirty bucks," and opened the door.
     The cop was there on a simple noise complaint, and he really didn't care about pot, either. Plus his nose was packed to the gills with cocaine, so he couldn't smell much anyway.
"What's goin' on, fellas?" he asked them cordially. "Nothing. Absolutely fucking nothing is going on, sir,"
High said. He fairly well coasted the word "sir" with venom. "Can you boys please turn the music down?"
     Myf and High-C looked at each other with disbelief. In their haste to cover up the pot odor, they had forgotten to shut the bone-rattling noise off.
     "No," High said. "It's my motherfuckin' right to blast music during normal business hours. I pay my taxes."

     "Yes, sir," Myf said, and went to turn down his custom- rigged alarm.
"Guy," the cop said, "It's not even five a.m. yet."
     "I don't give a flying fuck what time it is," High told him. The epithet "pig" was millimeters from his lips. "Taxes," he said instead.
     "If you're trying to say you pay my salary, I'm a dollar a year reserve officer, so you're probably right."
"Ha! I don't pay no fuckin' taxes. Pig!"
"Now you're just being hurtful," the cop said.
     "I apologize for my roommate's brash, impetuous nature, sir," Myf said upon his return. Years of being more-or-less black had taught him how to address law enforcement officers properly.
     "It's no problem, personally. I like the punk rock, dontchaknow."
     Ohio had never made it to death metal, so anything beyond Bob Seger was "punk rock".
     "Again, I'm sorry, sir," Myf said. "I can assure you that it won't happen again."
     "Hey, what's that?" the cop asked, indicating the smoke box. High-C was frying his pork products again.
     "It's, uh, a gay sex thing. You wouldn't be interested," Myf told him.
"Oh, no?" the cop said, stepping inside. "Try me..."
     "You have to be handcuffed," High said over the sizzle of the frying pan. To their amazement, the cop actually cuffed himself.
"Um, have a seat, I guess," Myf said.
###
     Magitek, three NCHH MC's representing an amalgam of science, music, and magic, received the PDF of The Book of the Dead - Egyptian Edition from YT in Colorado. He'd gone back to digging through the records of the Denver airport, looking for something to confirm or deny High-C's claims of "something ooky" going on.
There was an electronic Post-It attached: "Hot shit - YT."

     The boys printed three copies, along with a pirated Egyptian Hieroglyphics for Non-Dummies ebook, and got to work translating it.
###
     Doc Popular had succumbed to Router's numerous charms, and was composing a new backing track for her. His only stipulation was that she open the track by saying, "My new mania is motorcars!"
     Doc Pop was so fly, he composed the entire thing by banging on a Speak-N-Spell with a yo-yo. It took him all of four minutes, and the track was five minutes long. Zero Cool from the movie Hackers was largely based on studying his droppings. He didn't smoke pot, instead favoring hipster martinis, which was a martini glass full of Pabst Blue Ribbon with a cherry in it. But he had a feeling he'd probably need a joint soon himself.




Chapter 3 - Fear & Loathing In Cleveland
     When the cop, now handcuffed, sat in the chair on the right of Myf's contraption, High got his Glock .9mm from a box under his bed. He was sure they were popped, and that the cop's performance was a ruse to stall them while he waited for back- up. Perhaps it was the freebase, maybe it was the ghost of Ayn Rand.
He put the gun against the box containing the cop's head. "You may hear a slight noise. That's Alderaan. Fuck
Alderaan."
     To Myf's amazement and horror, he pulled the trigger, scattering the cop's blood and brains onto the opposite wall.
"Don't take any guff from these swine," he said casually to

Myf.


"You crazy, stupid motherfucker!" Myf yelled.
"What? I really, really don't like jail. I can't have

another misdemeanor on my record, either. Doesn't look good to the kids."
     He scooped a fleck of gray matter from the wall and tasted it. "Braaains!"
Myf threw up.
     "We're really going to catch hell getting our cleaning deposit back," High-C said.
Unable to think of any other course of action, he dialed
E.P.P. in Florida. Betty Rebel answered.
"B.R., we need an out. High-C's gone crazy!" "So what else is new? That's all he ever does." "He shot a cop in the head."
     "Oh," Betty said quietly. "Well, that's a new one. Okay, y'all can hide out here. But you have to promise to help me work on my solo album, okay?"
"Are you serious?" Myf said.
     "Very. I have a lot of ideas I'd like to explore. Want to drop sixteen bars for me?"

     "Betts, we're in serious, ass-pounding prison trouble, here."
"Yeah, well I need producers." "Okay, okay! This is silly." "Fine. Bring yo' asses on, then."
###
     Emergency Pizza Party were, characteristically, eating pizza and generally partying. There was no real emergency, but they were recording a new track with Patri Friedman about the myth of Keynesian economics for some bizarre reason, when Betty Rebel broke into tears.
"Fucking High-C's coming back," she said.
Lady Down began sharpening her steeliest knives.
###
     Beefy, the Beefster, Captain Beefheart, sat in a hot tub smoking a cigar, the scene marred only by the fact that he did so with his shirt on. There was no dialogue, because he was alone, and talking to himself would have been weird. Nevertheless, he chuckled and said, "Excellent."
A lot of his power stemmed from the fact that he was alone.
If only he could cure himself of his chronic porn addiction.
###
     Myf scrambled around the apartment gathering various mementos and keepsakes, throwing things into an Adidas duffle bag, and trying to make rash judgments on what he could leave behind. Suddenly the value of everything seemed skewed, and he realized that most of his really important things were stored online anyway. High-C ate two big-ass bacon and ham sandwiches, blas� to the dead cop in his living room.
     "It's a shame to lose the prototype," he said to a distraught Myf. "But I think we can build a better one. Let's put 3D displays in the next one, maybe."
"Let's roll," Myf said.
     High-C walked out of the apartment with his dope and car keys.
"Maybe we should set the place on fire," he said.

     "Sure," Myf replied sarcastically, "What's a few more dead bodies?"
     They jumped into O.D., Original Dora, High-C's candy-apple- red Isuzu Amigo, and High said, "Fuck!"
"Now what?" Myf asked, exasperated.
"I didn't even have a chance to grab my old school tape." "What?" Myf was so freaked out, he didn't get it at first.
"You have a CD player. Who uses tapes?" He paused. "Rhyme Pays! I get it, copkiller. Now drive, motherfucker."
"I'd really like some cigarettes," he said. "Drive!"
"Roll me one," High said.
     So High-C drove while Myf rolled joints, and lo and behold, he found Ice-T's Rhyme Pays under his seat. They smoked individual hooters and dug the genius of Ice-T and Evil-E, while the Myfster texted ahead for accommodations.
     They made good time traveling through the Ohio valley until fatty fat fat High-C wanted to stop for lunch.
     "Google me a strip club, fool," he said, waking the sleeping rap giant.
     "A strip club? We're on the lam, and you want to look at titties?"
"Duh. Don't you?"
     "Well, sure," Myf said. With a few keystrokes, he found one a few miles ahead, Cadillac's.
"An occasion such as this calls for cocaine," High said. "Lunch?"
     "No, a visit to a strip club. You be Metroid. I'm Beetlejuice."
"Why I gotta be Metroid?" Myf asked in faux ebonics. "Because crazy-ass Beetlejuice needs a bad motherfucker for
a bodyguard."
     "Point made. But why you gotta Dave Chapelle me? You know Metroid is a woman."
     "Because I'm about to go David Hasselhoff in this motherfucker. Besides, it could be anyone under the Gundam suit. You're a male Metroid, okay?"

     They ripped a few lines in the parking lot, and Myf got a text.
     "It's Benjamin Bear and Futuristic Sex Robotz. They say we owe them royalties."
###
     Fanatical heard High-C was coming back to Florida and moved to England.
###
     Sir-Up was working his lab tech job when he got bored. He had shoulder-surfed his boss's boss's administrative password and decided to use it.
     He dug through the top-clearance files until he found a chemical signature that he didn't recognize. It looked a like a blend of meth, coke, acid, and ecstasy, but the research indicated no deleterious side effects and a minimal, short-term addiction at best.
     He copied the files to a USB drive for later. Maybe this shit will chill High-C's ass out, he thought. Plus it was a pretty revolutionary chemical, and he was tired of making eleven dollars an hour.
###
     At Cadillac's, High-C drank too much, managed to eat too much even though he was zooted, talked with his mouthful, and borrowed money from Myf only to ball it up and throw it at girls' asses.
     The management eventually asked them to leave. High filled his pockets with free chicken fingers wrapped in napkins and packets of Saltines for later.
Back on the road, Myf got another text.
"You won't believe this shit. Nursie's in Tennessee." "What?"
"Serial. She and the Doc are visiting his parents." "Location of Karl Olson?" High asked.
Myf Googled.
"Uh, he has a weekend show with Beefy in Seattle." "Tell Nursie we're on our way. Um, warn Doc, rather..."
###

     Magitek were making startling discoveries with the Book of the Dead. Apparently, the version they possessed had a spell to raise a heretofore undiscovered entity with unfathomable power.
     The three joined hands, having memorized their parts of the summoning incantation. They bowed their heads and began chanting. At the crucial moment of their recitation, however, one of them opened their eyes and looked at a picture of MC Router perched on his PC.
"I love you, Router," he thought.
###
     Kristen's eyes opened wide, even though she was in a deep sleep. She leveled up to a ridiculous degree.
###
     Myf and High drove straight through to a town on the outskirts of Nashville, where they rendezvoused with Nursehella and Doctor Popular.
     "Whee!" she said, throwing her bags in the back. "Road trip!"
"Mr. Doctor?" High asked.
     "Not me, guy. All day in a jeep with two stinky guys and a drama queen? I'll fly," he said.
     They said their goodbyes, and were back on the road in under ten minutes. Nursehella sat in the center of the backseat so she could look out of the windshield.
Myf was driving, and High said, "What ya got for me, baby?" She reached into her shorts and pulled an eighth of B.C.
hydro from her snatch.
"A little light," he said.
"I'm a lady, sir. That's all I had room for."
     "Oh, pshaw," High said. "Wait'll Karl puts a baby in there."
     "Uh, yeah," she said. "I plan on waiting. You know, if you didn't have such perverse requirements, I'd have brought more."
"I'll take your quality over quantity any day, my dear." "You are such an asshole," she said sweetly.
"Yeah, about that. Take your shirt off."
Myf followed the exchange with silent interest.

"What?" she said.
     "Sorry, I don't make the rules," he lied. "Myf had to do it. I had to do it when I bought the jeep. The first hundred miles have to be topless. Dora is in charge."
"Oh, bullshit," she said.
     "It's true," High said. "This is no ordinary jeep. I won it in a bar bet with the bastard sons of Robert Heinlein and L. Ron Hubbard."
     Playing along, Myf turned the ignition key when she was distracted. The engine killed, and they pulled over to the side.
"What's wrong?" she asked. "Out of gas?"
"No," High said. "It's Dora. She demands your shirt." Nursie took her shirt off. "You guys are creeps," she said.
"Let's listen to my new demo!"
     Before they took off, High-C resumed driving duties. First, he went to Burger King. Then he drove through a full-service carwash.
"Asshole," was all she said. "You love it," High told her. And she did.
###
     The objects in Router's room levitated. She was suddenly spotted all over the place: Youtube, Chatroulette, 106th and Park. She cranked out an entirely new eight-song demo, and it was the hottest female MCing anyone had heard in years. And she did it all while lying in bed, never moving a muscle, heart and lungs included.
###
E.P.P. was having an argument.
     "He's not staying with me," Sir-Up said. "I'll stab him in his sleep. He insulted my wife's dead father!"
     "Well, he ain't stayin' with me," Betty said. "He said I should do sit-ups, and pulled out that Revenge of the Nerds line, 'Betty. You're like a goat'. I'll stab him in his fuckin' sleep."

     "He can stay with me," MC Wreckshin said. "He usually has good weed, and Myf said Nursehella's with them."
"Like you have a shot," Bbear said.
     "No, it's not like that. I have webcams in every room. I'm gonna make a fortune."
###
     In New York, Incredibad received High-C's minimalist remix of I Think I Might Have Killed the President, and were underwhelmed.
###
In Alabama, High again said he was hungry. "Hungry for titties and blow," Myf said. "Cocaine?" Nursie said.
     The ripped lines off of her tits, and let her snort some off of a Gortician CD case.
     "Put on your shirt," High told her. "We're going to a strip club."
"No irony there," she said.
     But there was a freaky vibe inside. The people all seemed creepy to Myf and Nursie. High-C was nonplussed.
"I see zombies and stuff a lot," he told them, unasked.
     They both wanted to leave, but he was spending Nursie's money on lapdances from women who looked increasingly dead. Plus there was a two-drink minimum, so he had six Heinekens to finish. But when a black girl with fangs took the stage, he said, "Ok, we can go now. Aaliyah's here."
     "I don't know what's crazier," Myf told Nursehella. "Him, or this situation."
At the jeep, Danielle said, "I want to drive!"
     "Gee, I don't know," High said. "You being Canadian and all...do you guys even drive on the right side of the road? Plus we could be violating local ordinances. Sounds risky..."
     She flashed her tits at him again. "Get him high," she told Myf, taking the keys.




Chapter 4 - All My Texts Originate in Texas
     Texas was going berserk, starting with Dallas. Waves of weirdness and insanity radiated outward from Kristen in concentric circles, which was odd, because most people expected it to originate in Austin.
     She had grown three feet in height, becoming an idealized SuperRouter. Literally. Dallas internet traffic began to flow through her. She selectively allowed or denied messages, altering others, ultimately keeping the happenings there under wraps.
     The same strange occurrences that plagued Dallas seemed to precede the three on their trip to Orlando. Shortly after nightfall, they stopped at a 7-11 for Zig-Zags. It was there that they learned not to let High-C run into stores.
     He went inside, and they watched through the window as he bought papers and a Hustler, then calmly shot the clerk in the face and walked back out, whistling.
     "Motherfucker was some kind of monster, did you see that?" he asked them.
     Nursie hit the freeway at nearly a hundred miles an hour. "Who gave this motherfucker a gun?" she asked Myf.
     But after she calmed down a bit, she asked them, "So ya'll saw it too? I'm not crazy?"
"No, love," Myf said. "You're no crazier than the rest of

us."


###
In Orlando at Geek NASA, laboratory of the Rocket-Propelled

Geeks, the growing nerdcore contingent was holding a meeting. Shamus Oddish of Magitek was speaking.
     "...so, basically, we fucked up. We're not sure what we unleashed, but we know it's some unspeakable monstrous force."
     "And it may have taken on the guise of MC Router," Quartz Relic said. "If not her actual body."

     "How do we know this isn't some government psy-op?" Bbear demanded.
     "Please," Thugmasta J said. "The federales don't possess this level of sophistication. Besides, why would they expend all of these resources on a couple of nerdcore MCs?"
     "Popcorn!" Spork of RPG announced, distributing bowls of microwave kettlecorn along with The HT and Epic-1.
     "Good point," Bbear conceded. "Although, I am rather notorious."
     Shamus continued. "We've been gathering reports from the Dallas area. They're spotty and incomplete, but taken as a whole, they indicate a pattern. We're seventy-six percent certain that these happenings are expanding outward from Kristen."
     "There's something you're not telling us!" Betty Rebel demanded.
     "You're right," Shamus said. "You got me. It's rather embarrassing, though. When we conducted the ritual, numbnuts here opened his eyes at the end and said her name while looking at her picture."
Quartz Relic glowed bright red with embarrassment. "Amateur!" Betty yelled. "Only a fucking noob falls in love
with Router! And why am I never considered the reigning queen of nerdcore? I'm a better MC than either of those bitches."
"You're my queen," Bbear said.
"Shut up," she said. "You had your chance, little man." "So what do we do?" Wreckshin asked.
     "Keep your eyes peeled," J said. If there are strange things afoot at the Circle K, we have a private Livejournal blog set up for reporting."
     "Livejournal? Who still uses that? Dean Humphries?" Betty said.
"Who?" Sir-Up asked. "Nevermind."
###
     Myf and Nursehella were worn to a frazzle. High-C was indefatigable, and insisted that they drive straight through.

With unfortunate timing, Nursie began to menstruate, and pulled off of the interstate for Maxi-pads.
"I'll go in," High said brightly.
"No way, cowboy," Nursie said. "My body, my choice. I'll go

in."


He handed her the copkiller Glock. "Seriously?"
"Yeah," High said. "Bring me six bags of Skittles. Use your

best judgment."
     Danielle went to the toiletries aisle and was upset to find only Tampax. Disgusted, she grabbed a box and an assortment of Skittles. At the counter, everything seemed normal at first, so she put the items on the counter and pulled out Karl's gold card.
     When the clerk started to ring up her order, she saw his face change. She shot him in the chest without hesitation. On impulse, she ran behind the counter and looted the open register, throwing the money and the things she had intended to purchase into a large grocery bag. At the last second, she grabbed a carton of Marlboros.
     She looked at the dead shopkeeper's face on the way out and was horrified to see that it was back to normal. She ran back to the jeep screaming and crying.
Myf was awake again and behind the wheel.
"Go!" she yelled. "I just shot a motherfucker!" "We know," High said calmly. "We were watching."
     Nursie broke into heavy sobs. "His face! It changed! He was a monster, but when I shot him, h-he turned back."
     High put his arm around her. "It's okay," he said. "We know the truth. Don't worry about it."
     "In other news, I got us almost two hundred dollars and a carton of smokes."
"Good girl!" High told her.
"Y'all ain't about to start smoking' cigarettes," Myf said. "Watch us," Nursie said.
     High said, "Hold up, D. We can't offend his delicate constitution. Hit a rest area, Myf."

"Are you crazy?" Myf asked him.
     High-C looked at him pointedly. "Yes. But do you hear sirens?"
Myf looked in the rearview mirror. "I guess it's safe."
     At the rest area, Nursie smoked two and High had five. They were just over the Florida border.
###
     Router sent an avatar to work in her place, so she could continue becoming. The people in the neighboring apartments were the first to convert to her servants. By the time the travelers had reached Orlando, her legion numbered in the hundreds.
###
     High-C finally dozed, leaning on Nursie's shoulder and drooling.
     "Poor baby," she said with sympathy. When they drove past an exit that said "Washington-Holmes", he woke up screaming.
     A Delta-Olds 88 with rims like stagecoach wheels pulled up beside them. A monster in a fedora put a bullet through the driver's side window. Now it was Myf's turn to scream. On instinct, he turned the wheel hard and Dora bounced off of the car undamaged. The Oldsmobile spun around and hit the center abutment, bursting into flames.
"Whoo-hoo!" Myf yelled.
"Fuck yes!" Nursie added. "Okay, okay, Dora kicks ass. I'm
glad I took my shirt off."
     "Myf, we need Washington and Florida peeps, stat." High said.
"What about New York and California?" "Fuck New York and California."
###
YT received a text from Nursehella. "Crisis in the Kremlin.
Digital Gangstas needed".
     With a single email, YT unleashed a thousand hackers with mad skills and axes to grind, all dedicated to defeating Router's internet censorship.
Then he called Zealous1.

"Yo," Beau said. "Z1! YT."
"Wazzup, blood?"
     "Not much, Street Fighter. Listen, you got east coast posse? Bangers?"
     "We deep, jack. I got cliqued up Latin Kings, MS-13, Bloods, Crips. Shit, I got ABs. What's the issue?"
     "I'm getting firsthand reports of high weirdness from Texas to Florida."
"Be specific, man. You can't shock the boss fighter." "Zombies, dog," YT finally said, still feeling somewhat
foolish at the notion.
     "Shit, caucasoid. That's all you had to say. I been trainin' my whole life for this shit. You know your boy is the zombie killa that's iller than Godzilla. Orlando?"
"You know this," YT said.
     "I'm on my way." Zealous hung up. "Mom, can I go to Orlando?"




him.

###
Beefy got a call from Zealous1 shortly after that.
"Pack your bags, kid. We goin' zombie huntin'," he told

"Shit," Beefy said. "I was workin' on a girl."
"There will be plenty of girls once we're done," Zealous

replied.




Chapter 5 - Florida Sucks
     It was shortly after three in the morning when the intrepid three finally hit Orange Blossom Trail at the outskirts of Orlando.
"Shit!" Nursie said. "I need to call Karl." She hit "1" on her speed-dial.
"Hey, babydoll!"
"Hi, Danielle," Ultraklystron said. "How are you?"
     "I'm good. But I miss that big ass...brain of yours. Meet me in Orlando."
"Come on. You know I have a show. Hold on..."
He came back on. "Uh, it looks like Queefy just cancelled." "Then just come to Florida. It's a surprise. We'll do a
show here."
"Okay, honeybutt," he said. "I will." "Love you," she said, and hung up. "Karl's down!"
"Yay!" Myf said.
"I like him best in small doses," High said. "Fuck you, High-C," Nursie said.
"Better copyright that phrase, chick," he told her.
###
     Router's army was terrorizing Dallas. Most of them were nightbreed, but every thirtieth or so was a daywalker. And each of them were spawning more followers. Children and young women were disappearing from the area at an alarming rate. After only one day, the police were overwhelmed. Any female deemed a threat to her rule was quietly disposed of. The men were willing pawns.
     Router, now queen of the dead, had nothing to lose. She controlled them via thought alone, so she couldn't be implicated physically. And if by some chance she was caught, the being she was possessed by would defend her. The human part of her, now buried, understood that she too was a pawn in the

scheme of things, but she was making the most of it while her power lasted. In a worst-case scenario, she would abandon her meatspace component entirely.
###
     Zealous1 dropped a dime, and mad hoods converged on the Dallas-Ft. Worth area. Most of them were locos who were anxious to squeeze the trigger anyway. Once he hipped them to the scenario, guns blazed day and night. But Router's forces were growing faster than they could be disposed of.
###
Nursie needed to visit a bathroom.
"Can't you do it while we're driving?" High asked her. "Eww, no!" she said. "You just want to see my pussy."
     "I've seen them before, dear. It's just that we're twenty minutes from E.P.P.'s house. Although I must confess, it would be highly erotically charged. Whoever conceived of perfumed inserts for bloody pussies was a genius. Your aroma is intoxicating."
"Fuck you, High-C."
"See?" he said. "Put it on a t-shirt."
###
     MC Wreckshin got a call and gave them directions. Thankfully, he had stayed up and waited for them, but he was dog-tired. When they pulled up, Nursie ran into the house.
     "Hey, Wreckshin! Gotta pee!" She pecked him on the cheek and ran into the bathroom.
Myf carried her bags in, ever the gentleman. "Howdy, pard," he said.
High-C walked in. "Hello, Mike," he said. "Fuck you, High-C."
High smiled.
###
     They were slow to react, but the feds finally caught wind of what was going on. The alphabet soup of agencies was arriving by the van full. Naturally, they were clueless. They had two tactics, brute force and subterfuge. The psychic nature of the zombies made force next to impossible, as they simply

didn't reveal themselves in the presence of law enforcement personnel.
     Covert action fared little better. By luck, the FBI managed to capture one of Router's minions. They were unable to do more than film it, and they were eventually forced to shoot it. It then of course reverted back to human form, and they had a new mess on their hands. They had killed the mayor of Dallas. Eventually, in desperation, an NSA hipster contacted YTCracker for help.
###
     MC Inadequate and Chozo Ninpo weren't formally invited, but they received word via the quantum grapevine, so they scrounged tickets for themselves and Veeps and caught the red-eye to Orlando.
###
     Myf, Wreckshin and Nursehella passed out. Before High-C went to sleep, he called his Usenet friends Soapy and Dean and told them to come to Orlando for the morning. Dean, because he was hyper and full of ideas, and Soapy because she needed excitement in her life. Plus, he needed a non-nerdcore perspective.
Finally, he got some much-needed rest.




Chapter 6 - Z.E.D.'s Not Dead
     At five P.M. the assembled nerdcore army met again at Geek NASA to discuss their options. Only YTC elected to hang back and run things from Colorado, NORAD-style.
Spork conducted the meeting.
     "The first meeting of Z.E.D., Zombie Eradication Defense, is hereby called to order. Myf, High-C, and Nursehella are here to give a firsthand perspective of the situation."
Myf spoke first, the most credible of the three.
     "Guys. Gals. I know you won't believe it, but we're in the midst of a full-blown zombie invasion."
Cries of disbelief erupted from the crowd. "Bullshit!" someone said.
"Myf, you're crazy," said another. "Cool!" Betty Rebel yelled.
"Fuck you, High-C," Beefy said. "Nursie, tell 'em," Myf told her.
"It's true, people," she said. "I shot one in the chest.
That should let you know how serious this is." Subdued murmurs circulated the room.
     "Dummy here shot a cop in the head," she said, indicating High-C.
"Fuck you, High-C!" the assembly yelled. He laughed. "And he wasn't even a zombie!" he yelled back.
Now it was their turn to laugh.
     "I'm afraid it's true, though," High said. "The zombification of America has begun. They need us to take 'em out. I'll let the little bastards responsible tell you how it happened and why it concerns us, specifically. But first I'd like to say hello to Chozo Ninpo's lovely girlfriend. Hello, Monica..."
Veeps blushed a deep crimson. Shamus took the microphone. "Look, people. We're very sorry. We were messing with
forces  we  didn't  fully  understand,  and  we,  uh,  sort  of

unleashed a demon of Lovecraftian proportions."
     Most of the nerdcore crowd had at least one foot firmly rooted in science, and they believed in demons even less than they believed in zombies.
"Fuck off!" someone said.
     "Look, your non-belief won't change anything. We really need your cooperation."
Shamus passed the mic to Thugmasta J.
     "You all trust YT, right? Well, he hacked into a government server and got a top-secret spellbook. I'm afraid we read the spell that unleashed the beast, so to speak. Go ahead and text him. We'll wait."
     YT's phone started blowing up, and after he answered the first few messages, people seemed to be satisfied that they were telling the truth.
"How does this concern the nerdcore crew?" someone asked. "I sort of transferred the demon to MC Router," Quartz
Relic said.
     "How can you tell the difference?" High-C asked, causing everyone to laugh loudly.
     "Seriously," Relic said, "She's censoring internet traffic from the area. But between us and the information that slips out, we know it's centered around her."
     "Assuming we believe you, what can we do to help?" Doc Pop asked.
     "We're goin' zombie killin'," Myf said. "We need people who aren't afraid to shoot to kill. Guns, crossbows. If your magic is strong enough, use that. But we've got to get to Router, and it won't be easy."
     "You guys are talkin' about actual killing," Betty said. "Kick-ass!"
     "You'd better get with it, girlfriend," Hella said. "Everything depends on us. Zealous, care to give us a few words?"
     "What up, y'all?" This is endgame, folks. I don't know about you, but I've been training for this. I'm ready to lead a party to Dallas. If you ain't with it, you'd better step back."

     He pulled a sawed-off from behind his back, and a few people audibly gasped.
     "It's not a game or a drill. It's the real deal this time," he said.
     "What can I do?" Soapy asked. "I'm not a killer, I'm a housewife."
     "Can you drive?" Myf asked. "We want to trek to Texas at least two to a car. One driver, one shooter, minimum."
"Yeah," Soapy said. "But a lot of us flew here."
     "We've got cars," Zealous said. "If you don't mind ridin' dirty. Or we can steal one for you."
     "Zombies, robots, pirates, ninjas...and gangstas?" Monny said. "That could work."
     Shinobi of Krondor Krew stood up. "KK representin' the ninja element. We're down."
     "Yar," Captain Dan said. "I and me scurvy crew are throwin' our hats into the ring."
     "I refuse to confirm or deny I am a bot," Doc Pop said. "But I find this entire scenario fascinating. Can I help without being a triggerman?
"Navigator?" Nursehella said. "It's a long way to Dallas." "Perfect. And I've got my yo-yo if we get in a pinch. I
think I might enjoy driving, as well."
     "Okay," Myf said. "These things, whatever they are, either knew we were coming here, or followed us. It's going to be a fight to get to Dallas. We have a cache of weapon at The Comic Shop. Guns, edge weapons, staffs for you clerics.
     "Get with Beau if you need a car. I printed up maps. Take one, get your weapons, and go. The map leads to a park near Router's apartments. We'll rally there for the big showdown."
"Shoot to kill," High-C reminded them.
###
     E.P.P. rode four deep in Wreckshin's Chevy Nova, arming Betty Rebel with an Uzi. Karl, Nursehella and Bbear set out in a stolen lowrider with an AK-47. Krondor Krew drove a Takuro Spirit, naturally, and carried the standard assortment of ninja weapons.

     Captain Dan's crew always traveled armed as well, with scabbards, cutlasses, and vicious-looking knives. The Rocket Propelled Geeks were hyped. They had actually gotten their hands on an RPG-launcher and a few .38 specials.
     Magitek stayed true to their name, bringing only electronics, music, and the book that had caused their problems in the first place. Plus a kendo staff for insurance. Zealous1 rode out in a fly Cadillac, armed with twin sawed-offs. Doc Pop was behind the wheel, and Beefy was in the backseat.
     Veeps, Chozo, and Inadequate left in a huge Hummer with an assortment of handguns and an SKS assault rifle. High-C grabbed a second Glock, and Myf acquired a .357 magnum, taking an assortment of hand grenades. Dean and Soapy drove a Ford Taurus and brought pistols, but really didn't expect to use them.
     They all set out for Dallas, and none of them knew that they each carried a kilo of Sir-Up's new discovery.




Chapter 7 - Federal Case, Jr.
The feds sent a representative to talk to YT in person. "Listen, Bryce. We know about your latest break-in. Sloppy.
But whatever you kids did, it's kicking our asses."
     "I'm not admittin' nuthin'," YT said. "You know the routine."
     "It is our understanding that there's a deeper connection to your little nerd rap scene. We're in a real pickle, here. Throw us a bone."
YT considered this for a moment.
     "We're responsible and we're going to fix things. But we need total immunity for all crimes committed in the interim."
"All crimes?"
"Except rape," Bryce said.
"And you expect carte blanche? Nice try, kid. I know you.
Ten minutes after we leave, you'll be draining bank accounts." "Do you want the problem handled or not?"
The agent sighed.
     "Yeah. I'll send word to treat the matter hands-off. My bosses are not going to like this, though."
     "Fuck what they like," YT told him. "Do you really want a nation of zombies?"
     "You guys have forty-eight hours. After that, you can expect prosecution for any crimes you're caught committing," the agent said as he left.
YT chuckled and sent a text to Nursie: "All systems go.
License to kill."
     Then he defaced the White House homepage, declaring himself President, even including his picture like the old days, and started transferring funds from Wall Street to the accounts of the nerdcore crew.
###
     The trouble began almost as soon as they hit the interstate leaving Orlando. They were traveling in a vee formation at a

hundred and ten miles an hour, the roads eerily empty. Four Florida state troopers tried to pull them over, and it was their first shoot-out.
     One pulled beside E.P.P. and Betty said, "That cop looks like a pig!"
"Semantics," Sir-Up said.
"No, he has a pig nose! Fucking shit!"
"You're riding shotgun..." Wreckshin reminded her.
     "Oh, yeah. Fuck yes!" she said. "Now how does this thing work?"
     She roughly aimed the Uzi and pulled the trigger, releasing a burst that caught the pig thing through the bicep, rupturing its chest. The cop car veered off to the right and into a ditch.
"Don't fuck with the Reb!" she yelled.
     Another pulled up next to High-C and Myf. Myf made a "roll down your window" gesture, and to his amazement, the cop did.
     He pulled a pin and tossed him a grenade, which landed in his lap. Myf waved goodbye, and when it exploded, all of the windows shattered. The car lurched left toward them, and then rolled, nearly causing a collision with Bbear's vehicle, which was following behind them.
     Doc Popular was, of course, a hell of a driver. He cut across two lanes of traffic in an instant, perfectly positioning Zealous1, who stuck out a shotgun and shot through the third cop's window, vaporizing the side of his face. The car slowly coasted to a halt behind them.
     MC Inadequate banged into the last car with the Hummer a few times, toying with it, until one of the RPG crew lost patience and blew it up. The explosion was spectacular.
     Nursie got a text from YT: "Local law enforcement says clear roads ahead. Haul ass."
###
     By then, everyone in Router's apartments were either dead, disappeared, or converted. She rose, nearly eight feet tall, and surveyed her troops. She now had an entire battalion of undead warriors, and they were steadily growing more numerous.

###
     YT transferred a million dollars into each nerdcore artist's bank account. He mainly robbed megacorps and billionaires, so a lot of them never even noticed once he'd covered his tracks.
     If they survived, they'd be set for life. He sent another text to Danielle: "$1,000,000 in your accounts. 44 hours to withdraw. I don't trust the feds."
###
     E.P.P. practiced their new material as they sped down the highway. High-C put in a CD he specially made so he and Myf could recreate the Run-DMC scene from "CB4", which killed an entire minute.
     Beefy and Zealous1 got into a fierce freestyle battle as Doc Pop beatboxed for them, eventually declaring it a tie.
     RPG downloaded High-C's tracks and gave them a listen, surprisingly enough. Even more surprising, they enjoyed them, appreciating the dark undertones, which was something nerdcore generally lacked.
     Bbear drove while Ultraklystron and Nursehella made love in the backseat, and he tried not to look. Each time he did, all he saw was Karl's white ass, so it got easier each time.
     Magitek desperately tried to figure out how to reverse the damage they had caused, to no avail.
"We're gonna have to kill her," Thugmasta J said.
     They didn't have any more problems until the Louisiana border.
###
     Router sent forty-nine of her minions to the rest of the continental U.S. Hawaii was off-limits due to the difficulty of a zombie getting past airport security.
###
     Nursie kept YT informed, and eventually he decided that he couldn't miss the action. He and the Spamtec crew chartered a private jet and flew to Dallas to meet up with everyone else.




Chapter 8 - Louisiana Sucks, But Not As Much As Florida
     In typical fashion, the Louisiana police weren't playing ball with the feds. In defiance of orders from Washington, they blocked off I-10 west entirely, declaring that no one, but no one, was going to break the speed limit on their watch.
     The caravan saw the line of white state trooper's cars and slowed down as they approached, stopping a few yards short of them.
"I'll handle this," High-C said, getting out.
"Don't," Myf said. "They'll arrest you at the very least." "Naw," High said. "These are my people."
     "What seems to be the problem, you boys?" High asked one of the troopers.
     "Damn feds. They said to just let y'all blast through here, fast as you please. Ain't gonna happen."
"Shit," High said. "Y'all got a beer for me?"
     The cop looked surprised for a moment, and then walked to his car and got a long-necked Budweiser, ice cold, from a cooler in the backseat.
     "Thank you, sir. Mighty refreshing. All I've had lately was Miller High Life."
"Damn communists," the trooper sympathized.
"So, did they tell y'all why we need to book it to Texas?" "Some fool nonsense about zombies, undead army. Craziest
shit we ever heard."
     "Oh, now I get it," High said. "I'm not surprised Louisiana folk didn't fall for that. That's just the latest federal code talk. You know we can't say things directly."
"Oh, yeah? For what?" the trooper asked. "Negro-Mexican uprising..."
"No kidding?"
     "No, sir. I shit you not. They've formed some sort of anti- white, anti-Christian army in Dallas. Took a bunch of white women hostage."

"The hell you say!" the cop said.
     "Yes, sir. I'm sad to say it's true. See that nigger?" He pointed at Myf, who smiled and waved. "We're transporting him for a hostage exchange."
     "Well, I'll be," the trooper said. "We knew something like this was going to happen some day!"
     "That day has arrived, sir. Today is the day. We have a white girl who escaped. They didn't even let her take her shirt, the poor thing."
     "Fucking savages," the cop said. "Let's roll. We'll give y'all an escort to the state line."
     "Let me go get the girl. She can tell you the whole story on the way. In six hours, they're going to start killing the women if we don't get their leader back to them."
High walked over to Nursie. "Take off your shirt," he said. "Fuck you, High-C," she said, taking it off.
     "Come on. Turn on the tears. You were kidnapped by a bunch of black and Mexican gang members and escaped. Only you can find their hideout."
"How utterly contrived," she said. "Slap me."
     High slapped her across the face. "Will that help you cry?" he asked her.
     "No," she said. "I can cry on cue. I just like to be slapped, and Karl won't do it."
     He slapped her again, happy to oblige. They walked to the line of troopers, and Hella started tearing up and sobbing.
     "Poor thing was hysterical," High said. "We'll pick her up at the state line."
     "Can I run the siren?" Hella asked, getting in the front passenger side of the trooper's vehicle.
"Little lady, you can run whatever you want," he said. ###
     YT and crew touched down at Dallas International at about the same time that the nerd caravan reached the Texas border. He sent Nursehella a text asking for their whereabouts, and she replied: "Five hours out", so they checked into a hotel to rest and wait.

###
     Nursie worked the lights and sirens until she got bored, smoking cigarettes all the while. Then she flirted on the radio, eventually performing "Nursehellamentary" acapella for the troopers.
     At the state line, the trooper who drove her there said, "Godspeed, little darlin'. We're sorry to see you go."
"Me, too. You boys are good people."
     He gave her a Louisiana state trooper jacket to keep her warm, and she walked back to Karl and Bbear.
     "The asshole could have given you the jacket before the two-hour car ride," Karl said.
###
     The economy of Dallas was in a shambles. Crime was up, food consumption was down. Router had no clearly defined goals aside from domination. Her army ate, but they weren't shopping at H- E-B or Kroger's. They favored the flesh of children, pure and relatively untainted by a lifetime of toxins, unlike the adults.
     Vigilant citizens killed a few of the zombies, but then they reverted to human form, causing the best of the community to be arrested and thrown in jail or mental wards. It was bedlam. Within a week, if unchecked, the rest of the country would be in the same sorry shape.




Chapter 9 - Bad Mother Truckers
     The second gun battle occurred near Beaumont. A semi truck with a canvas tarp over the back pushed its way into the convoy.
"Fuckin' truckers," Bbear said.
     It was a normal enough occurrence that they let their collective guard down, and were taken by surprise when the tarp flew off. Four zombies began firing on them.
     Bbear and Betty Rebel reacted quickly, firing back with automatic weapons, but not before Ultraklystron caught a slug through his left hand.
     "I'm hit!" he yelled. Nursie grabbed the wheel as he fainted, narrowly avoiding an accident.
     Three of the four attackers went down. The fourth leapt onto the hood of Shamus's Toyota Camry, gun in hand. No one could safely shoot without endangering Magitek, who were without guns of their own.
"I'm tryin' to code back here!" Thugmasta said.
     When the zombie shot through the windshield and missed, Quartz Relic used the staff to shove it off the hood, where Beefy, now driving the caddy, ran it over.
"I always wanted to do that," he said. Nursehella called Zealous1.
"Beau, Karl's hurt. Plus we need gas."
"A couple of us need gas. How bad is he?"
     Nursie had pulled him to the passenger side so Bbear could drive.
"Hold on," she said.
"Karl. Karl!" she said, slapping his face. He opened his eyes.
"How are you?" she asked him. "I'm fucking shot!"
"Let me see," Nursie said.
He held up his hand, which was still bleeding a lot.




me?"

"Fucking fuck," he said. "I'm fucking shot." "Relax," she said. "You're right-handed."
Karl was sobbing. "I'm half a man! How can you ever love

"Oh, suck it up," she said. "Can you move your fingers?" He wiggled them, then moved them individually.
"Yeah," he said.
"Good,"  she  said.  "Flesh  wound.  No  hospital  visit

necessary. No broken bones or cut tendons." "It fucking hurts!" he said.
     Everyone pulled into a Stuckey's that was large enough to still be safe, and began refueling. Nursie left Karl moaning in the backseat and went in for medical supplies.
     She got handkerchiefs, peroxide, alcohol, Tylenol, and a small Styrofoam cup, paying cash for the gas and other items, at the last minute grabbing a roll of duct tape as well.
High-C was fueling up and smoking a cigarette. "I need a little of that coke," she told him.
     "Hoe, you want a hit, you gotta get yo' knees dirty," he said.
     "Fuck you, High-C," she said. "You're such a wigger. It's for Karl's hand. He caught a bad one."
     "Aw, I was just kidding. Of course. What's mine is yours, Danielle."
She handed him the empty cup, which he threw away.
     "That's no good," he said. He peeled the cellophane from a pack of reds and dumped some coke in it, in full view of anyone who cared to look.
     "A little extra for you, too. Stay up. Times about to get ill when we hit Dallas."
"Thank you," she said.
"Give my love to Karl," he told her.
     Ultraklystron screamed when she dumped the peroxide and alcohol on his bullet wound. Once she had cleaned it, she dumped cocaine on it, and wrapped it in the handkerchief, sealing it with duct tape.
"Wow," he said. "It doesn't hurt anymore."

"I'm not called Nursehella for nothing," she said.
     They sped off toward Dallas, the road again empty ahead of them.
###
     When they were an hour away, Nursie sent YT a text and told him to be ready. He had Router's address in his email inbox, so he and the rest of Spamtec decided to try and do reconnaissance, Scooby-Doo style. Still not taking things seriously, they went unarmed. They took a cab, and had it stop two blocks from where she lived, going the rest of the way on foot.
     They hadn't even made it a block before they saw their first zombie.
     They were passing what they had thought was a homeless man when he suddenly snarled and leapt at them. It was only their relative youth that allowed them to escape unscathed. When they scattered and ran, he pursued them at high speed. By chance, he didn't have a gun, or at least one of them would have been killed.
     After a few blocks, they had lost him, and YT, panting, called a cab.
"That was no ordinary zombie," he said.
###
     Nursie got a text from ZeroBitRate and SashRa: "Zombies spotted in OKC." Router's followers were starting to appear in the states surrounding Texas.
###
     They rolled into Dallas and rallied at YT's hotel room instead of the park.
Spork from RPG again led the meeting.
     "Let the second meeting of Z.E.D. commence," he said. "Nursehella, anything new to report?"
"Uh, yeah," she said. "They're spreading to other states." "Great," Bbear said. "We can't go state to state killing
zombies."
     "We could make a reality program out of it," MC Wreckshin said. "The Antique Zombie Killing Roadshow."

     "Actually," Shamus said. "According to the spellbook, if we dispatch the queen, the others will revert."
"Dibs!" High said.
     "This is serious," Zealous said. "We expect a big fight to get to her. If you're not willing to kill, you should stay here, or hang back and provide support."
     We're going in D and D style: ranger, paladin, mage, barbarian, healer, Halfling, etcetera. But with guns. YT just encountered one of her guards. YT?"
     "Yeah, these are not Hollywood zombies. They move fast, they're intelligent, capable of disguise. The one we saw didn't have a gun, but you already know firsthand that they're good with weapons. Be careful."
     "Another thing," Zealous said. "There may be civilians left in the area, but we're not sure. We don't want to hurt or kill regular people."
     Myf spoke up. "Based on your various skills, we've assembled three balanced teams of fighters. Krondor Krew and Captain Dan's scurvy dogs are self-contained fighting forces, and they work best as groups. The teams are as follows: Team Hacker - YT, Sir-Up, Quartz Relic, Nursie, EPIC-1 and Chozo Ninpo."
"Go Team Hacker!" Chozo shouted.
     "Team Gangster: Zealous1, MC Wreckshin, The HT, Betty Rebel, Beefy and MC Inadequate."
"Unbeatable!" Beefy yelled.
"I'm a gangsta like Rappy!" Inadequizzy said.
     "Team Psycho: High-C, Myf, Ultraklystron, Veeps, EGod, Spork Utensil."
"Woo," Myf said without enthusiasm. "Oh, joy," Ultraklystron said.
High-C raised his arms like a conductor. "Fuck you, High-C," everyone yelled. "What about me?" Bbear asked.
"We need a stealth assassin," Myf said. "I'm your guy," Bbear replied.

     "If everyone is cool with the teams, we'll continue. They're all pretty balanced, with a warrior, paladin, mage, healer, ranger, and barbarian. Can you work together? If there are personality conflicts, tell us now."
     "Honestly," Chozo said, "I don't trust High-C with my girlfriend."
"Okay," Myf said. "Do you trust her?" "With my life."
"It's no problem, then," Myf said. "Unless she's a cop." Everyone laughed.
     "Seriously. The dude is weird, I admit, even for a nerd. But he's, um, mostly harmless, to borrow a phrase. Any other qualms, questions, concerns, or considerations?"
No one said anything.
     "Okay, then. Good. Magitek are going to break it down as far as support services."
     Quartz Relic spoke first. "Zombie killing? We have an app for that," he said.
The crowd laughed.
     "Seriously," he said. "If these zombies have cellphones, they'll show up on this crude radar we've devised." He held up his iPhone.
     "This map is centered on the GPS location of Router's apartment, with concentric circles indicating one thousand, five hundred, and one hundred yards. Her power should increase exponentially with proximity, so be warned."
"What if you don't have an iPhone?" someone asked. "We have an Android version, too."
"What about the Palm Pre?" High-C asked.
     "Fuck you, High-C," Relic said. "The app also keeps score for you manually. No cheating. Three points for wounding, five points for chest shots, ten for headshots. Just to keep things interesting. One last thing from YT and Zealous, and we'll head out."
     "We're going to have gangbangers outside of the thousand- yard range doing mop-up operations and providing exterior defense. If you shoot outside of that zone, be damn sure you

know what you're doing. We don't need more gang wars," Zealous said.
     "Now for the good news," YT said. "Nursie, did you tell 'em?"
"No, I forgot when my sweetie got shot," she said. "Check your bank accounts," YT told them.
Several people pulled out their phones. "Holy shit!" Chozo said.
"Insane," Ultraklystron added.
     "We still have to get out of this alive. And if we don't eliminate the problem, the feds will roll up on us," YT said. "You should withdraw the money as soon as we finish so they don't try and seize it."
     "Check your weapons. Get ammo. We have crossbows and knives, too. Carry a backup piece. If you get in a bind, call or text the support team. They'll direct someone to come and rescue you. Don't get captured!" Zealous said. "Any questions?"
No one had any.
     "Don't assume they'll all show up on the app," Zealous said.
"Okay. Let's go kill some zombies, people," Myf said.
###
     Router rose and emerged from her apartment into the night air. Her undead warriors surrounded her. She didn't need to speak, but informed them that a force was coming that opposed her, and she needed to be defended.
     Several positioned themselves around the apartment, then her building. More encircled the complex, and a few surrounded the block. She retired to the dark of her apartment to await the confrontation.




Chapter 10 - Hack Attack
     Team Hacker charged into the fray first. They parked a few blocks outside of the established perimeter and set out on foot, weapons in hand.
     YT couldn't relax. Not just because of his role as squad leader, but because the whole thing reeked of a setup. Even if the feds were playing it straight with him, there was no similar guarantee from local law enforcement.
     Nursie let loose with a burst of automatic gunfire almost as soon as she had stepped out of the vehicle.
"Woot!" she said. "I feel like fucking Tony the Tiger!" "Crazy bitch!" YT said. "You're gonna get us busted or
killed!"
The neighborhood was again deathly quiet.
     "License to kill," she said. "Stop being such an old woman."
     "Don't do it again," YT said with authority. "Besides, do you have to make your love of animal sex public knowledge?"
Danielle looked momentarily confused, and then laughed. "I get it," she said. "Pun Tuesday like a motherfucker." "Hella, it's Thursday," YT said.
"So?"
     A block out, they encountered a cholo and a red plaid-clad black dude, who said nothing but nodded them through.
     "That guy was a for-really blood," Nursie said to Chozo. "How exciting!"
     "Okay, that's basic," Chozo said. "What about the other one?"
"Um, a Mexican?"
"Latin King. Didn't you see the crown on his ballcap?" "Oh," Nursie said.
The next block was blacked out. Even the streetlights were
off.
"Creepy," Nursie said to Sir-Up.

     They walked past two corpses in silence. YT had his phone out, watching their progress on the map.
"The next block is Router's. Expect trouble," he said.
     Halfway down the block, they spied their first zombie standing near some bushes, away from the moonlight. At least they hoped it was a zombie. They were going to kill it either way.
     Nursie raised her machine gun, and YT put his hand on the muzzle and pushed it back down.
     "Let Sir-Up get him. There's no way you'd hit him from here."
"Aww, dad," she said.
     To their surprise, he knelt down on one knee, gaining a steady aim and trying to take slight breeze into account.
     "This ain't the Olympics," Nursie hissed. "Shoot the motherfucker!"
     He ignored her and continued to fix his sights. Finally, he squeezed, and the zombie's head exploded in a cloud of cranapple red mist. It fell to the ground backwards.
"Oh, fuck! Fuck yes! Sir-Up for the win!" Nursie said. "Ten points," he said, and YT logged it.
     "Man, I wish I had designed this app," he lamented. He was already making improvements in his head.
     They held back to see if the gunfire would bring more zombies, but the coast was clear, so they pushed ahead.
###
     Team Gangsta followed essentially the same pattern, but approached from the opposite corner, Thankfully, their arrival was less conspicuous. Zealous made sure everyone was locked and loaded, and then went over the basic game plan.
     "Keep quiet and stay together. Don't hesitate to shoot once we're inside the perimeter, but be damn sure you have a clear shot, and you know what you're shooting at. We don't need friendly fire. If you have any questions, ask them now. It's gonna be heated."
     "Not really a question," Beefy said. "But I never shot a real gun before."

     "You're kidding," Zealous said. "You played Call of Duty, right?"
     "Actually, no," Beefy said. "I'm more into platformers and stuff. If we face zombies on a Dance Dance Revolution game, I'll kick their asses in."
     "Damn," Zealous said. "Take my shotty. It's point and click, okay? If you're within ten feet, you can't miss. Anyone else?"
     "I'm sick to stick like a John Woo flick," Betty said. "Let's kill somethin'."
     MC Wreckshin said, "I think all zombies have a right to life."
Everyone stared at him, astonished. "Just kidding," he said.
     As they approached the outskirts of the first zone, Zealous saw two figures and froze. But they weren't zombies, they were crips.
"Zel?" Betty asked.
     "It's cool," he said. "I still got that west coast mentality."
As they passed by, Zealous said, "What up, cuz?" "Peace, blood," one of the two said in response.
Like Team Hacker, they found corpses at the borderline. "These are humans," Betty whispered to Zealous as they
walked around them.
"They change back when you kill 'em, remember?" Beau said. "Oh, yeah."
     They heard the crack of a gunshot, and a bullet whizzed close overhead. The entire crew scrambled for cover, running in different directions. It came from a rooftop, and when they tried to get into position to shoot back, they received more fire, pinning them down.
     The HT pulled out some binoculars just in time to watch Benjamin Bear sneak up behind the zombie on the roof and cut his throat, mercenary-style. He gave them a thumbs-up, and they pushed on.
###

     Krondor Krew and Captain Dan's raiding party approached from the other two corners. Team Krondor approached with ninja stealth, being so quiet they even made it past the gangbangers without being noticed. Shinobi made their first kill, decapitating a zombie with a bushido blade.
     They slipped into a utility closet to contact Doc Pop and company to check the position of the other crews, since they were moving faster than everyone else.

"DP, go," Doc said, not mincing words.
     Shinobi said, "We're on the outside of the apartments. Do you have a fix on anyone else?"
     "You're the first to contact us," Doc said. "I'd hold your position for a few minutes, and I'll hit you back when I hear more."
     The phones were set to vibrate, but everyone agreed not to communicate directly and run the risk of distracting someone who was in the middle of a battle.
     Predictably, Captain Dan and the Scurvy Crew entered the skirmish like a bevy of drunken sailors. They sang pirate songs loudly, walking up the middle of the street, and drawing the attention of a pair of Salvadoran MS-13 who were posted on the west side.
     "Keep it down, Holmes," one of them said. "You gonna get shot."
     "That'll not be happenin'," Captain Dan said, and they staggered off down the street, looking for a fight.




Chapter 11 - Balloonacy
Team Psycho took a different tack altogether.
     "Hit this," High-C said, pushing a joint in Ultraklystron's face.
"Uh, I don't smoke pot, High-C," Karl said politely. "Training day," High said. "'No' is not an option."
He reluctantly took a hit and passed it around the circle.
Myf fired up another one.
"In for a penny, in for a pound," he said. "Who wants some blow?" High said.
     "No, thank you," Ultraklystron said. He was already feeling buzzed.
"I'm cool," EPIC-1 said, hitting a joint.
     "Gimme that shit," eGod said, taking the Bowie coke mirror from High. He hit two huge rails like a seasoned pro snowboarder.
"Fuck it," Myf said. "Me, too."
"Um," Monny said. "What will this stuff do to me?"
     "It makes your pussy wet and my dick soft, speeds your thought processes, and increases your reaction time."
"Increases?" she asked.
"Decreases. Whatever. It's speed. Cocaine." "I think I'll pass," she said.
     "More for me," High said, finishing what was left and firing up another spliff for himself.
"Got guns?" he asked, holding in a hit.
     Everyone nodded in affirmation, silently considering the upcoming dangers.
"Pile in."
     Everyone climbed into Dora, guns drawn. Myf rode shotgun as usual, with everyone else crammed into the backseat, except for Monny, who, like Nursehella, insisted on leaning between the seats and looking out of the windshield.

     High-C hit the controls and put the windows down, and said, "Cut holes in the cover."
"What?" Karl asked.
     "Just cut slits in the leather so you can look out of the sides. We need all the eyes we can get. You might have to shoot someone."
"Uh," Karl said.
     "The life you save just may be your own. Just do it. Dora's cool with it."
"Dora, like Heinlein's Number of the Beast Dora?" "The very same."
"You're cooler than I thought, High-C."
"Thanks, Mr. Klystron. You're no slouch yourself."
     High handed Karl his knife. He and eGod each made long slits in the side of Dora's custom Tonneau cover, then handed the knife back.
"Keep it," he said. "You might need it. Pineapple count?" "Uh," Myf said, checking his backpack. "Six grenades, dog." "That'll have to do. Let's get it."
     He hit play on the CD player, and Cypress Hill's Hole In Your Head began to play.
     "Rollin' like a psycho with the windows rolled down, who you lookin' at, you tryin' phase me, clown?" High rapped along with B-Real.
He put it in first gear, and they were on their way. "So what's the plan?" Myf asked him over the music. "Plan?" High said, puffing on a cone.
     He continued to increase speed until they were doing sixty down the empty streets. As they whizzed past the crip and blood posted at the corner, Myf threw up a peace sign.
     There was a zombie on the next corner, and High cued up Psychobetabuckdown, which began, "Avast, Cap'n. Blast 'em." That was all the reminder Myf needed. He leaned out of the window and unloaded a volley of bullets, two of which hit the zombie sentry in the chest.
"Pure gangsta shit, High!" he yelled gleefully.

     "Five points," High-C said, and Spork dutifully logged it into the app.
"When are we getting out?" Myf asked.
"When we get there," High said, accelerating. "Another one!" Veeps said, pointing to the right.
     Myf leaned far out of the window and fired a single bullet, which struck the zombie in the side of the head.
"Deerhunter, bitches!" Myf said. "Ten points." "Call of Duty?" High asked.
"Nope," Myf said. "Asteroids."
"Nice. I remember that move. We're almost there, I think." "Yep," Spork confirmed. "This is the block."
     High slowed a bit. There was a zombie standing in front of the wall of Router's apartment block, and he aimed for it. It turned toward them and fired.
     Monny screamed and fell to the floor as the windshield shattered. Myf leaned out to return fire, but didn't have time to draw a bead. High-C accelerated.
"What are you doing?" was all Myf had time to yell.
     At almost the last possible instant, High slammed on the brakes to lessen the impact on his passengers, and smashed the zombie into the wall. Dora's front end crumpled.
"Sorry, old girl," he said. "Everybody out, quick."
     After they had disembarked, Spork said, "Five points, I guess," and started to log the kill.
     But it was moving, writhing while trapped between Dora and the wall, somehow still alive. High walked up and put a slug in its head.
"Ten points," he said.
###
     Team Gangsta was the first of the three to make it near the apartments, regrouping in an RV that Zealous casually broke into.
     "Text home base and let them know that we're there," he told Betty once they were inside.
"Gotcha," she said, and set her thumbs to twiddling.

     A full minute elapsed, and he asked if she'd gotten a response.
"Not yet," she said. "Hold on." "Shit," he said. "What's the delay?" "Sorry. Updating my Facebook." Everyone groaned.
     "Okay, okay," she said. Finally, she got a reply from Doc. "YT's checked in."
Just then they heard a crash.
"One can only assume that High-C has arrived," Beefy said. "Let's do this," Zealous said. "Set phasers to 'kill'. Tell
DP we're moving."
     As they exited the RV, they heard a blast from a conch shell.
     "That's Captain Dan," Wreckshin said. "He doesn't use a cell phone when he's in character."
###
Router commanded her army to attack.




Chapter 12 - Operation Europe
     As Team Hacker approached the outside wall of the apartments, YT gutshot the zombie that was standing watch. The blast sounded like artillery in the still night air, bringing several more. Since they didn't fear death, they ran directly at YT and company, guns blazing.
     Sir-Up shot one in the chest, and another in the head, while Chozo fired what seemed like a hundred rounds, taking out four more.
     In a flash of inspiration, Quartz Relic raised his hands in front of him and yelled, "I cast magic missile!" A blue ball of plasma flew from them, exploding the penultimate zombie in the pack.
     The last was almost upon Nursehella when she shot it in the crotch. "Take that, zombie bitch!" she yelled triumphantly.
     "We gotta take cover," YT said as they ran into the courtyard. He kicked in the first door he came to, and they were relieved to find it was empty.
"Pile the furniture against the door," he said.
     "I saw, like, every zombie movie ever made," Chozo said as he and Quartz Relic carried a couch over.
"Best one ever?" Wreckshin asked.
     At the same time, Chozo said Cannibal Ferox and Nursie said Evil Dead. They looked at each other, ready to defend their choices.
Quartz Relic said, "Actually, I thought Dawn of the Dead
was an excellent treatise on American consumer culture, and-" "Just get some damn furniture," YT said, "Or you won't live
to blog about this later."
     Nursie stood playing with her phone. "Oh, how cute," she said. "Demona updated her FB status. I gotta do mine!"
"Demona?" EPIC-1 asked.
     "One of Betty's old nyms," Sir-Up said. "Ten cool points for Danielle."

###
     Team Psycho's entrance attracted nearly twenty zombies before they had even gotten past the wall they had crashed into. They were surrounded.
     "Back to back!" High shouted, and they got in a tight formation and started blasting. The bodies fell so fast they were stacked on top of one another like console cartridges, and they kept coming.
     When the first zombie began shooting, Karl raised his hands over his head, encasing them all in a translucent yellow cuboid. The bullets struck it and bounced off. But four zombies stood outside the force field.
     "Now what?" Betty asked, taking close-up shots of them with her phone.
     High raised his Glock and put it against the shield, casually shooting one between the eyes.
"Ten points," he said.
     "Fuck you, High-C!" Karl yelled. "What if that bullet had bounced around in here? You could have killed us!"
     "You're too smart for that, Karl," he said. "Would Ultraklystron make such a shoddy force field?"
     "Uh, no, I guess not," he said. "But I didn't think about it when I did it."
     "Get you some," High said, and Myf, eGod and Spork each scored a headshot.
     "Let's go," he said, and promptly walked into the shield, smashing his nose. "Ouch."
Veeps laughed.
"Can't you make it mobile?" he asked Karl.
"I'm only level forty-three. Who has time to play WOW?" "WOW? What about D & D?"
"I don't play D & D," Karl confessed. "Shadowrun." "Ten cool points for Karl," High said.
###
     Captain Dan and his men walked into the courtyard swinging cutlasses and cutting down zombies, and saw Krondor Krew doing the same with katanas.

     "Avast, mateys," Dan called out to them. The ninjas waved and continued to hack away at the now dwindling horde.
###
     At the entrance to the courtyard, Team Gangsta entered in time to see the last of the inner ranks of zombies go down.
"Damn," Zealous1 said. "Fun's over already?"
     Just then, gunfire erupted from two different apartment windows upstairs, pinning them down in crossfire. A bullet tore through the flesh of Zealous1's tricep.
"Damn," he said again.
     "In here," Beefy said, ramming into an apartment door. The crew went in, and Zealous went last, spraying the upstairs windows along the way with shots from a .44.
"Punk motherfuckers," he said.
###
Team Psycho heard the gunplay and approached at a crouch.
But all they found were dead bodies.
     "Ambush, me hearties! Stay low," Dan called out from the shadows.
"Veeps," High said. "Which apartment?"
     "That one, I think," she said, pointing diagonally away from them.
"There's no apartment number?"
"Uh, no. But the map shows that apartment." "It's a 2D map! Upstairs or downstairs?" "It doesn't say."
     High-C sighed. "Sometimes I think you geeks are too clever by half. A fancy-ass app, when all I needed was a street address and an apartment number. Call the Doctor."
     "Doc!" Veeps said. "We're in position for Operation Europe."
"What's that?"
"The Final Countdown. I thought you were a hipster?" "I am," he said. "But I have taste."
"Where is everyone?" she asked him.
     "They've mostly all checked in. YT and Zealous's teams are inside the apartments. Bbear's on the roof as lookout and

sniper. The only people we haven't heard from are Krondor Krew and Captain Dan."
"Dan's here," Veeps said. "We heard him."
"Krondor operate in silence. They're probably there, too." "So what do we do?" she asked him.
     "I'm just a communication hub, not logistics," Doc said. "It's up to you guys to solve this one. Anything else?"
"Yeah! What apartment?"
     Router set off an electromagnetic pulse, and all the phones went dead.
"Fuck!" Veeps yelled. "The phone died!"
     "See where your overreliance on technology will get you?" High asked rhetorically.
     "Lecture us later, perfesser," Myf said. "We gotta find that apartment."
"Karl?" High asked.
"I'm not picking up anything."
High-C closed his eyes and concentrated. "There," he said when he opened his eyes again.
     He pointed at an upstairs apartment, twenty-one, and the door was framed by a green light. A zombie took a potshot at them, and it struck above their heads, dropping bits of shattered brick on them.
"YT!" High yelled, using most of his lungpower. No answer.
     Instead, he closed his eyes again and tried thinking it. "My handle is the YTCracker" played in his head.
"What up, G?" YT thought back.
     "We need Sir-Up on the roof. He and Bbear can pick off reinforcements as they come in. There's a ladder in the north alley."
"Roger that," YT shot back. High opened his eyes.
     "You okay, nutjob?" Veeps asked. "Ya' kinda spaced out there for a minute."
"Sir-Up needs cover," he told them. "Get ready." "What?" Monny asked.

     Sir-Up bounded out of the apartment they were hiding in, and zombies began busting out the windows, firing at him as he ran. Myf, eGod, and Spork took them out like ducks at a shooting gallery.
     As he was nearing the corner, a zombie stepped from around the wall. It was nearly seven feet tall.
"Everything really is bigger in Texas," Sir quipped.
     Before he could raise his rifle, a volley of shuriken caught it in the neck and chest. It clutched at them and fell forward.
     "Thank heaven for little ninjas," he said as he fired into the back of the creature's head for good measure. Nick slung the gun onto his back and ran to the alley, where he joined Jake in the sniper's nest.
"What took you so long?" Bbear asked him.
     "I got in the middle of a zombie-ninja turf war, so I stopped and bought a t-shirt."
     "Lulz," Bbear said. "I'll take south and east, you cover north and west."
     "Way ahead of you," Sir-Up said, raising his rifle and plucking off an incoming attacker.
###
     "Zealous!" High yelled. "Apartment twenty-one. We need cover."
     The living room window of the apartment that Team Gangsta was hiding in was shattered by a shotgun blast from the inside.
"Gotcha, homey. Go!" Zealous called back.
     Team Psycho ran upstairs single-file, High-C in the lead, and Monny bringing up the rear. To their amazement, they drew no fire as they made their way to Router's lair. When they got there, Spork bashed at the door and they learned that the green glow was a shield enacted by her magic.
"Windows?" Myf asked.
     "Sucks?" High replied. He put a shot through the glass, but the force field remained intact.
"Karl, you got anything?" High asked him.

     "Are you kidding? Against Router? She's level eighty, plus she cheats. Hates to lose."
"Veeps?" High said.
They turned around to look for her, and she was gone. "There!" Myf said, pointing to the first upstairs apartment
they had passed. Everyone looked to see a dark figure close the door.
     "Myfster," High said. "You're in charge. Get the other crews up here and find a way to take out Router. I'm going to get Monny back. Chozo'll never forgive me a second time."
"Alone?" Myf asked.
     "It was my fault. She was defenseless. I should have seen this coming, so I'll save her. It's the burden of leadership. Got any grenades left?"
"Yeah. Uh, they're downstairs..."
     "Try that first. I'll be back. And do me a favor? Don't tell 'em I lost Veeps."




                   Chapter 13 - Locked Down Myf ran down to retrieve the grenades. "Cover me," he said. "I'll be back."
     But the complex was silent. He met YT and Zealous1's crews at the base of the stairs.
"Force field," he said. "I've got grenades." "What color?" Zealous asked.
"Grenade-colored." "No, the force field." "Oh. Bright green." "Damn," Zel said.
"Is that bad?"
"It ain't good, cuz."
###
     High tried the doorknob, and it was unlocked. He opened the door a crack, but didn't see or hear anything. With the certainty that he was stepping into an ambush, he went inside, leaving the door open to use what little light was available.
     It was a trashed but otherwise empty living room. He paused, letting his eyes adjust, and listened. The only sound he heard was his own ragged breathing, and his heart pounding in his chest.
     When he could see a little better, he pushed on into the hallway, which was even darker. Every horror movie he had ever watched flashed in his head, but what ultimately stuck wasn't a zombie movie, but Alien.
     That made him think of Ash, the cyborg. Or android. He wasn't sure which. That made him think of Bruce Campbell, and he was back to zombies again.
"Fuck," he said, cursing the darkness.
     His chest began to glow red, and the hall lit up enough for him to see the doors.
"That's weird," he said.

     He ignored the first, which he knew was the bathroom. If the zombie that grabbed Monny had brought her in there, he felt they deserved a little privacy. He swung open the bedroom door, and a zombie woman sat in a rocking chair facing him.
     "I'm sorry, High-C, but your princess is in another castle," it said.
     "I don't have anything clever to say," High said, shooting it in the face.
     There was no one else in the room that he could see. On a whim, he checked the closet, and saw a jagged hole cut through the sheetrock wall leading to the next apartment.
     "Harrison Ford has a bad feeling about this," he said, stepping through the portal.
###
     The teams massed in front of Router's apartment, waiting for Myf. Captain Dan and Shinobi continued to patrol the perimeter with their crews of cutthroats and assassins.
"Beau, you're bleeding!" Nursehella said.
"'Tis just a flesh wound," he said, shrugging it off.
     "What the fuck, Betty?" she asked. "You're supposed to be the healer of your group."
     "Killing's more fun," Betty told her. "Something about shooting a machine gun makes my dick wet."
Danielle thought about it. "Yeah, me, too," she said. "Besides, he's a big boy."
"You callin' me fat?" Zealous asked her. "Uh, yeah, a little," Betty said.
     "Here we go with the fat jokes," Beefy said. "You're about as original as High-C."
"Fuck High-C," Betty said.
"High-C's a fruit drink," Zealous added.
     "To quote Tarantino," Beefy said, "Nigga's got a weight problem. Nigga's Samoan."
     "Why don't you drink you a Coke and boot up your Gamecube, you grammatically-incorrect Whitesican version of Chunky A?"
     "Are you going for cool points with an obscure Arsenio Hall reference? Really?" Beefy asked her.

     Nursehella was wrapping Zealous1's bandana around his still bleeding arm when Myf returned with his backpack.
     "Let's blow this popsicle stand," he said, pulling out a grenade.




Chapter 14 - Peach Is the Word
     In the next apartment, High caught a glimpse of a retreating figure moving down the hallway, but he didn't shoot for fear of hitting Veeps.
"Can you smell the set-up?" he asked the empty room. On the wall was a pentagram drawn in fresh blood. "That's kind of cool, I guess," he said.
     Instead of immediately following as they obviously expected him to do, he went to the refrigerator. Warm Budweiser. Perfect. He drank most of the can and poured the rest on his face.
"Time to get ill," he said. "Lone Wolf McQuaalude." Whenever he told the story of the time he moved to Lemon
Heights, California and Chuck Norris moved away, people thought he was kidding.
     High looked in the cabinet and found a bear-shaped bottle of honey. Then he looked on a bookshelf until he found a Bible. He tore out a back page advertisement and crumbled the rest of his weed into it, rolling a huge cigar and sealing it with the honey.
"I'm not the Doc," he said, "But I'm known to get savage."
     He lit the blunt, smoked it halfway down, and pushed on with the stub in his mouth, doing his best to look like George Peppard.
###
"What's the range of these things, I wonder?" Myf asked. "The shrapnel goes twenty to thirty feet, easily, according
to Jane's," Karl said. "But I wouldn't get closer than fifty." "Let's use two. I need someone to set one off with me." "Hey, where's Monica?" Chozo asked.
     "Uh, High-C took her to go get high," Myf said, scrambling to cover for him, and making matters worse instead.
     "That motherfucker!" Choz said. "I'm shooting him myself when they get back."

"I'll do it," Inadequate said, and everyone looked at him. "Oh. Pitch a grenade, not shoot High-C. I don't have a
problem with him, personally. Dude stuck up for me when no one else would."
He paused.
     "Come to think of it, the rest of you could say the same thing. Buncha assholes," he said, smiling.
Myf handed Inadequizzy a grenade.
"Here, devil's advocate. Everyone else around the corner." "On three?" Inadequate asked.
"Si."
"Uno..."
"Dos..."
     "Tres!" they both shouted and tossed the activated bombs, barely rounding the corner before they went off.
     The grenades exploded within a half second of each other, resulting in a tremendous double bang, as the first softened the target for the second. When the smoke had cleared somewhat, the two groups returned to Router's door and found the lower half of it missing, but the shield she'd erected intact.
###
     High opened the next door slightly and triggered his nine. As he entered the bedroom, he let off two shots without thinking, killing the zombies assigned to block his passage.
     He stood in the room with two dead bodies and puffed his blunt as the sound of gunfire echoed in his ears. When he had the courage to open the closet door hiding the passageway into Router's apartment, he found the way barred by the same green force field.
###
     The rest of the raiding party converged at Router's front door. The once intermittent sounds of gunshots from the rooftop and the surrounding blocks increased in regularity.
"Well, now what?" Betty asked, exasperated.
     "If it's explosives you be needin', Captain Dan be the man," a voice said from behind her.
"Captain Dan!" she said, turning around to face him.

     "Yar," he said. In his hands was a small cask with a long wick sticking out of it.
"What's this?" she asked.
     "Someone set us up the bomb," he said, placing it in her hands.
"We tried two grenades. It won't budge," she said. "This be a Davy Jones special. Enchanted."
She looked at it skeptically.
"Well, I guess it won't hurt to try."
Everyone else ran back to the protection of the corners. "Ready," Zealous said.
Betty pulled out her red Bic and tested it.
     "Lucky lighter, don't fail me now," she said, placing the bomb next to the wall.
     Just as she was about to light it, shots began to ring out from the corner. She looked into the courtyard, and a horde of zombies was rushing in like a tidal wave.
"Light that thing!" YT yelled at her.
     "Stop shooting," she shouted back. "I have to run that way."
The gunshots on his side ceased. Betty lit the fuse and
ran.
The bomb burst just as she rounded the wall, with a sound
as loud as ten grenades. The plaster, wood and glass erupted outward, showering the zombies below.
The force field winked out of existence.




Chapter 15 - Victorious Secret
High-C heard the explosion and checked the closet again. "Access granted," he said, stepping through the wall.
     The hole led into Router's closet, which was filled with lederhosen and Sailor Moon dresses.
     "This must be the place," he said. He opened the door, ready to blast, and nearly shot Veeps in the face.
     She sat on an unmade mattress with her hands and feet taped together, and a piece of duct tape across her mouth.
     "Oh, Monny," he said. "It puts the lotion on its skin, or else it gets the hose again..."
     He reached for her, and she cringed. High grabbed her face with his left hand and pulled the tape off with his right.
     "What are you doing, you psycho? My boyfriend's gonna kill you!"
     "You're in no position to make threats, Veeps. I need a knife," he said, looking around.
     Monny let loose with a blood-curdling scream. Several people entered the apartment, and Chozo burst into the bedroom, gun drawn.
     "Motherfucker," he said, leveling the weapon at High's face.
     "Chozo, he's crazy! He was looking for a knife!" Monny said.
Chozo pulled back the hammer on the .38 he was holding. "Choz, take it easy, guy," High said. "I was going to cut
her loose."
Chozo looked at Monny.
     "That's plausible," she admitted. "He didn't tie me up, they did."
"More zombies!" Betty yelled.
     The gunfire outside sounded like popcorn. Microwave kettlecorn, to be exact.

     "Let's get Router and end this," High said. "You can shoot me later."
Chozo uncocked the pistol. "Untie her," he said.
"She's your girlfriend," High told him, leaving the room. YT and Zealous stood in front of the other bedroom door. "She's in there," YT said. "I can feel her."
"Why no defenses?" Zealous asked.
"They were next door," High said. "I shot 'em."
     "Hurry up!" Betty yelled from the balcony. "They keep coming!"
     Zealous swung the door open and they saw Router before them. She was standing upright, but her feet weren't touching the floor. She slowly rotated in the air, eyes closed.
"She's fucking huge," YT said in awe.
     Her head and feet were at best an inch from the ceiling and floor.
"Shit," Beau said. "Now what?"
     He had been expecting a fight, and was entirely unprepared for this scenario.
"Shottie," High said, holding out his hand.
     "Hurry up!" Betty shouted again, shrilly. They could hear the rising anxiety in her voice, and the guns going off like strings of firecrackers.
     Zealous was reluctant to turn over the weapon, knowing what was to come, but placed the sawed-off in High's hands nevertheless.
     He held it over his head and waited for her to complete a rotation. When she came around again, her eyes were open. They glowed as red as the light on a defective X-Box.
"I'm sorry Kristen," he said, pulling the trigger.
     The barrel exploded in her face, and she fell back on the bed, shrinking to her normal size as she went, eyes closed but otherwise unharmed.
     The gunshots outside tapered off, but not before several former zombies were shot in the face and chest.

     "Zombie killas, muthafucka!" Betty yelled when she realized what had happened.
     "I can't believe you killed Router," YT said. "That was my homegirl. Nerd love and shit, man."
"Had to happen," Beau said. High-C said, "She's not dead." Both turned to look at him.
"Look at her face. Not a scratch." "She's not breathing," YT said.
     "Breathing's overrated," High said. He called out for the trio of magic nurses. "Healers!"
Nursehella, Betty Rebel, and Veeps walked in unarmed. "Bring her back," High said.
     The girls looked at him, and each other. None wanted to admit that they didn't believe they could help her. High knelt by the bed, taking her hand in his own. The three joined hands and closed their eyes.
     "That's hot," High said, and Veeps opened one eye to glare at him momentarily.
     As they concentrated, black-bordered red hearts began to slowly fly from their chests and into Kristen's.
"Whoa!" YT said.
     Her body jerked and her breath began to come back to her. Right before High sensed that she was going to wake, he placed his mouth on hers.
Her eyes flew open.
"Good morning, Sleeping Beauty," he said.
     She punched him in the jaw and jumped up to a sitting position.
"What the fuck?" she yelled.
     "Surprise!" the girls said, unable to think of anything else.
     "Get this motherfucker out of my house!" Router told Zealous.
YT laughed. "She's back," he said.
     They walked outside to the balcony, and looked down at the bodies below, which seemed to cover every available inch of

ground, many piled two and three deep. "What the fuck?" Router asked.
     "Movie shoot," High said. "Zombie Killa, remember? I can't believe you slept through this scene."
"Oh, yeah," she said dazedly.
Dean and Soapy walked up, late to the festivities. "What did we miss?" Soapy asked.
"Everything," Veeps said.
     "Let's get out of here," YT said, nervous about the federal presence that he knew was immanent. "Denny's. Breakfast is on me."
Everyone cheered.
"Thanks, Bryce," High said. "But I really must be going.
Myf's got school and stuff."
     "Thanks, you crazy motherfucker," Beau said, shaking his hand.
"Nursie?" High said. "Care to join us?" "Sure," she said. "If Karl can ride." High sighed. "Oh, I suppose."
     They walked to the jeep. Dora's front end was smashed, but there was no radiator leak. Before he unlocked the doors, he said, "Shirt."
     Danielle rolled her eyes and peeled off her Chun-Li tee, her breasts catching and reflecting the morning's first light.
"That's better," he said.
     When everyone was loaded, High put on Zealous1's Zombie Killa track and backed away from the wall. They set off down the road, and when he glanced in the rearview, his eyes glowed red...

The End